WorldStage NewsOnline—- Nigeria’s Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and other leaders on Monday  congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidates on their victory in the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa. Lawan in a congratulatory message signed by Ola Awoniyi, his Special Adviser (media) in Abuja on Monday, particularly rejoiced with Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi on his reelection. He also rejoiced with David Lyon for making history as the first governor Bayelsa has elected on a platform different from the outgoing ruling party in the state. The Senate President praised President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring a level playing field that enabled the people to assert their sovereignty and choose their leaders. “The impressive turnout of voters in the two states is a ringing endorsement of democracy by Nigerians as their preferred system, notwithstanding its current challenges,” Lawan said. He also thanked the security personnel for their sacrifices for peace and order in the face of great difficulties. The Senate President enjoined the winners to be magnanimous in victory by accommodating all sections of the state in their governments and development agenda. Lawan also admonished the electoral umpire to learn from the challenges experienced in the two states with a view to constantly improving its institutional performance and the electoral process. In separate congratulatory messages, the lawmaker said the victory recorded by the candidates was an indication of the wide acceptance the party enjoyed in the two states. Gbajabiamila said that Bayelsa in particular, had joined the `Next Level’ train, having seen the massive change driven by the APC-led government at the federal level. “It is gladdening to know that our party, the APC, came out victorious in the governorship election in Kogi and Bayelsa. “This is a testimony that Nigerians across the length and breadth of the country are beginning to realise what the APC meant for the country. “This victory is not for the party or its members alone, but for the entirety of Nigerians. “May I call on the two governors-elect to be magnanimous in victory; The APC stands for the good of Nigerians, and I know the two governors-elect are part of the journey to make Nigeria better,” the Speaker said. He called on the people of the states, including members of the opposition, to join hands with the governors-elect to make their states great. Similarly, the Deputy Speaker, Mr Ahmed Wase implored the governors-elect to work closely with all persons and interest groups to move the states to the next level. Wase appealed to the people of the two states to remain law-abiding as transition to new administration had started in earnest.