Major stakeholders from
the public and private sectors will on Wednesday this week set agenda on how
Nigeria will not be left behind in the emerging Fourth Industrial Revolution at
the WorldStage Economic Summit (WES) 2019. WES 2019 with the theme ‘Getting Nigeria Ready for Challenges of the
Fourth Industrial Revolution’ will holdon
Wednesday, November 13, 2019 by 10.00AM at the prestigious Event Centre, The
Nigerian Stock Exchange, Lagos, Nigeria. . According
to a statement by the organizers, World Stage Limited, the Federal Government
will be making strong presence at the summit through the Director Generals of some
strategic agencies which include the National Identity Management Commission, Standard
Organisation of Nigeria, Corporate Affairs Commission, Security and Exchange
Commission, while private sector will be represented by the leadership of the Lagos
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Nigeria
Computer Society, Association of Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria, PENGASSAN,
Trade Union Congress, Nigeria Labour Congress, NACCIMA, NUPENG among others. The lead paper will be presented by Dr. Babatope Ogunniyi of the Department
of Economics, University of Lagos, while there will be a panel discussion on
the theme of the summit with emphasis on the Relevant laws and policies
requirement for Fourth Industrial Revolution; Developing infrastructure,
industries and Business Models for Fourth Industrial Revolution; and Urgent
reviewing of education curriculum, Developing Skills and building capacity
through massive investment in science, technology, engineering and mathematics
(STEM) education. According to Mr Segun
Adeleye, President/CEO, World Stage Limited, the Fourth Industrial Revolution is
throwing up many questions that stakeholders must answer before setting agenda
for the country. “The questions begging for answers include why and how Nigeria
missed out in the first three industrial revolutions and how it needs to
leapfrog with the 4th industrial revolutions,” he said. “The questions of how the fourth industrial revolution
will impact on agriculture where Nigeria has a competitive advantage,
and oil, the mainstay of its economy must be answered.” The WorldStage Economic
Summit (WES) is conceived to address economic challenges through diagnoses and
application of practicable solutions with public and private sector engagement
in a research and innovation driven platform to inspire new thinking in business
initiative, policy formulation/implementation, economic reform and development.