Eighty-nine youths, selected from the 110 host and pipeline communities of Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) on Tuesday in Port Harcourt graduated from the company’s skill acquisition and capacity building programme, Youth Empowerment Scheme (YES). YES is one of NLNG’s
numerous initiatives designed to make youths in its host and pipeline
communities self-reliant as well as economically and socially responsible
through guided technical and managerial development training. In her welcome address
at the event, NLNG’s General Manager for External Relations and Sustainable
Development, Eyono Fatayi-Williams, remarked that the Company’s host
communities in Rivers State have benefitted from the scheme through vocational
modules in hair-dressing and cosmetology, catering and events management,
fashion and design, photography and video production, welding and fabrication,
wood work and furniture making and most recently, farming techniques. She added that it was
NLNG’s way of giving back to its host and pipeline communities that have
supported the company in achieving great feats in its 30 years of incorporation
and 20 years of production from its Bonny Plant. The scheme programme
includes mentoring of trainees by five of its training providers – Plantgeria
Nigeria Limited (Automotive), Topearl Catering and Hospitality Management
(Catering), JB Multimedia Limited (Video Production and Photography), Lincoln
Continental Limited (Advanced Welding) and Farmers’ Business School (Farm
Management). On this she said: “The
agreement between us and these training companies set the stage and opened new
vistas for our aspiring youths. Since then, most of them have graduated with
National certifications- NABTEB and Trade Test 11 respectively. Today, we are
here to celebrate the graduation of 17 youths in welding, 24 in Catering and
Hotel Management, another 17 in Automotive Training, 16 in Farm Management and
15 in Video and Photography. “It is heart-warming to
state that these trainees graduated with excellent grades. To help them get
started immediately, we have provided them with a starter pack and mentorship
from their trainers for three months period post set-up. This is to support
them in overcoming any teething problems as they start and also to help them
get grounded to succeed in business,” she added.

NLNG is owned by four
Shareholders, namely, the Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by NNPC
(49%), Shell Gas B.V.  (25.6%), Total Gaz
Electricite Holdings France (15%), and Eni International N.A. N. V. S.àr. l
(10.4%).