Amidst growing crackdowns on internet fraudsters
popularly called Yahoo-yahoo boys in Nigeria by the Economic and Financial Crime
Commission (EFCC), the President/CEO, World Stage Limited, Mr. Segun Adeleye
has advocated that government in collaboration with the private sector should
set up innovation hubs in all the country’s 774 local government areas and lure
the youngsters there for them to make decent livings. In his address at the #WorldStage EconomicSummit2019 at the Event Centre, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Lagos on Wednesday November 13, 2019, Adeleye said that the EFCC was victoriously announcing the arrest of hundreds of young internet fraudsters almost every day could only underline the ingenuity of the youngsters to explore opportunities threw up by new technologies, though in a negative way. “What this points at is that if these energies are
positively channeled, the nation will be on the path of technology advancement,”
he said. At the annual summit
with the theme, Getting Nigeria Ready for the Challenges of the Fourth
Industrial Revolution, Adeleye
said that the country lost out in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd
industrial revolutions, demanded that it should proactively leverage on
emerging technologies to
provide jobs for the teeming youth population. According to National Bureau of Statistics report,
as of third quarter 2018, 55.4% of young people (15-34) were either
underemployed or unemployed (doing nothing) compared to 52.6% in the same
period of 2017. “We at the WorldStage Economic Summit believe that
urgent preparation for and exploration of the unlimited opportunities in new
technologies will make a lot of difference and put Nigeria at the driver seat
of its destiny,” he said. “The best we can hope for through the Fourth
Industrial Revolution is for
the country to be positioned as a net producer of technology, rather than a
dumping ground. This will take deliberate efforts to be discussed here today,
rather than wishful thinking.” On the state of Nigerian economy, he said, the
highest point since WES 2018 was probably on 7th of July 2019 when
President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Agreement Establishing the African
Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The agreement seeks to create a single market for
goods and services by facilitating free movement of goods, services and
investment within the African Continent. With the signing of this agreement, Nigeria together
with the other signatory states have committed to a progressive elimination of
import duties and other non-tariff barriers on imports within the African
continent. “It’s interesting to note that Nigeria accounts for
nearly 20% of continental GDP and about 75% of the West Africa economy with its
exports to rest of Africa estimated at mere 12.7%, and only 3.7% of total trade
is within the ECOWAS,” he noted. “Services sector accounts for about half of Nigerian
GDP, dwarfing the 10% from oil and 22% from agriculture. Real GDP growth was
estimated at 1.9% in 2018, projected to grow by 2.3% in 2019 and 2.4% in 2020
as implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan gains momentum. “Despite the modest growth and government’s good
intention, the growing rate of unemployment in the country should continue to
give the government and the private sector sleepless nights.” On the objectives of the WorldStage Economic Summit,
he said it was conceived to address economic challenges through diagnoses and
application of practicable solutions with public and private sector engagement
in a research and innovation driven platform to inspire new thinking in
business initiative, policy formulation/implementation, economic reform and
development. “Through the last three editions of the summit we
had looked at, Addressing the unemployment crisis in Nigeria; Transforming
Business and Economy Through Innovation; and New sources of economic strength
to make the future happen respectively,” he said.