The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has restated its commitment to the wellbeing of victims of disaster in the country. Director-General of NIMASA, Dr Dakuku Peterside, stated this in Port Harcourt while presenting food items and other materials to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Rivers State. The South-South Zonal Coordinator of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mr. Walson I. Brandon, received the relief materials on behalf of flood disaster victims and IDPs in Tai, Andoni, and Opobo-Nkoro local government areas of the state. Brandon appreciated NIMASA for the kind gesture and appealed to other corporate organisations and individuals to emulate the Agency. While presenting the items, Dakuku, who was represented by the Director, Special Duties (External Relations and Technical Cooperation), NIMASA, Hajia Lami Tumaka, stated, “This is part of the nation-wide donation of diverse forms of relief materials to people displaced as a result of the 2019 flood disaster that submerged some parts of the state and some other states across the country. It is a continuation of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, which have taken place in some states and are still on-going.” The DG told the representatives of NEMA that NIMASA would vigorously pursue the improvement of the welfare of Nigerians, and urged the coordinator to ensure judicious use of the items. “We are here as a corporate organisation to comply with the Federal Government’s directive to all government organisations to use their powers and resources to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians affected by flood and other disasters. We, therefore, call on other corporate bodies to partner with us in this drive in order to always support the Federal Government’s drive in advancing gestures that impact lives positively and meaningfully in the country,” Dakuku added. While receiving the materials at the South-South zonal store of NEMA in Port Harcourt, Brandon commended the efforts of NIMASA. He emphasised that the gesture was a significant and timely intervention in support of the Federal Government’s efforts to guarantee the welfare of the citizens. Brandon stated, “The Agency is ever grateful for this kind gesture and it would not be forgotten in a hurry. We call on well-meaning Nigerians also and corporate institutions to emulate NIMASA. We assure that the items donated would be judiciously distributed to the affected persons with the aim of alleviating their suffering.” Materials donated to the victims included rice, corn, mattresses, sugar, salt, Dettol, beans, noodles, soap/detergents, sanitary pad, dippers, mats, blankets, mosquito nets, dairy foods, palm/vegetable oil, grinding machines, and pumping and sewing machines. It is worthy of note that the Federal Government has consistently encouraged interested philanthropists and non-governmental organisations to partner with government in order to cater for the needs of Nigerians affected by disaster. It is in line with this that NIMASA is carrying out the CSR activities across the six geopolitical zones in the country.