WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’s Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami has directed the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), to review cost of data by telecommunications service provider and called for expansion of 4G penetrations. The Minister who gave the directives on Tuesday at the inauguration of the new Executive Commissioner, Stakeholder Management of the Commission, Mr. Adeleke Adewolu , further insisted that the NCC should review the illegal deduction of data by mobile operators, adding that complains by Nigerians had been worrying. He said the top priority of the Commission should be the interest of the customers who happens to be Nigerians. “If you go to other countries, even countries that are not as largely populated as Nigeria, data prices are not this high,” he said. “I am also a victim of some of the infractions that are so common in the industry. You load your data, but you barely used 20 percent of it and the entire data is wiped off.” He further spoke on the need for expansion of 3G and 4G penetrations, saying, “the penetration of 3G, most importantly 4G, I believe we are in the pipeline of a 5G trial, but however what is most important is now, is to expand the penetration of our 4Gs. Most importantly NCC is directed to give operators a target. “There should be a target of how to expand. If there are any ways you can encourage them, no harm in doing that, but try to make sure any challenge they have in place,  we will all come together and resolve the challenges for the given target is very important. And I would appreciate to see at least a template within the next five days over the target you give them when it comes to the expansion, that one is also very important.” Pantami, however, commended the NCC over it swift action on a directive to deactivate unregistered Sim cards, saying, “as the case may be, as I said earlier, that is highly commendable. “Secondly, I also commend the efforts of the Board of NCC and the Management on all that has been achieved when it comes to broadband penetration so far. The target was 30% and we were able to exceed the target by almost 5% which is 35% that is also highly commendable. “This is highly commendable. Thirdly, the effort NCC put in place to make sure that the companies that we fine remitted the total amount to the Federal Government of Nigeria based on the report I have received from the chief Executive Office of the Commission. This is also highly commendable.”