The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), today November 14, 2019  charged financial institutions to uphold  banking rules and ethics in the discharge of their duties. Head , Benin zonal office, Muhtar S.Bello,  gave the charge when he received staff of Access Bank who paid a courtesy visit to the Commission in Benin. According to him,  upholding the rules and ethics of banking will go a long way in the fight against corruption in the country. He admonished the bankers to be transparent and accountable and to report suspicious transactions as soon as possible.  “In being eager to meet your target  with the bank , always adhere to the principles  of honesty, integrity  and self descipline. Report any act that fails the simple test of integrity”, he said. Earlier,  Leonard N. Ikojo who lead the team  said the essence of the visit was to enable the bankers to know more about the workings of the EFCC. In a similar development,  the State Coordinator of the Human Rights Commission, Benin Zonal Office , Sani Mamodu today ,sought the collaboration of  the EFCC  in the the areas of training of staff.  “We seek partnership with the EFCC in the areas of workshops and awareness creation for both our staff and yours, It is hoped that partnering with the EFCC in this regard would go a long way in overcoming the challenges militating against the protection and promotion of human rights in the society”, he said. In his response,  Bello,  explained that the  Commission is charged with the responsibility of sensitizing the publics on the ills of corruption, economic and financial crimes in Nigeria  and would be willing collaborate with the Human Rights Commission whenever the need arises,   ” Educating and sensitizing the publics is a major function of the EFCC. We also liaise with other organisations to sensitize their staff on the ills of corruption  and how to join the fight against graft. We shall be willing to sensitize your staff whenever you are ready.” The zonal head also received a delegation from the United Nigeria Chaplaincy, who offered to partner with theEFCC,  in the fight against corruption and other acts of criminality in the country. Chaplain Osakede M.Francis, State Coordinator, United Nigeria Chaplaincy, who led the team said the essence of  the courtesy call was to seek for ways  to partner with the EFCC   in curbing corruption in the country. “We have come to offer our assistance to your Commission knowing full well that you can not fight this menace alone.  We believe in the adage that says, a tree can not make a forest. We  need all hands to be on deck to cleansed the system of corruption”. According  to Osakede,  the Organisation is an inter-religious para-military organisation  responsible for proffering solutions to the security challenges in the country through combating human trafficking, illegal migration, cultism, terrorism and teaching moral instructions  and security tips to schools in Nigeria. In his response, Bello thanked the organisation for the visit and for seeking to partner with the Commission in the fight against corruption. He said the organisation can partner with the Commission by standing up and speaking against corruption in various spheres.   “We need you to use your platforms  to speak to people especially the youth on the ills of corruption. You are to teach them to shun corruption of any kinds, especially internet fraud popularly called yahoo yahoo because this crime is  mostly committed by them. Also you can provide us with relevant information whenever you come across acts of corruption. 