The Federal Government has listed higher import revenue, lower domestic fuel consumption and increased rice production by local farmers among the gains of the closure of the country’s land borders in four geo-political zones of the country. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed,announced the gains when he visited the Seme Border on Monday, alongwith Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister ofInterior Rauf Aregbesola, Minister of State for Finance, Budget andNational Planning Clement Agba, National Security Adviser BabaganaMonguno and the Comptroller General of the Nigerian ImmigrationService Muhammed Babandede He said since the closure, the monthly import revenue has increased by15%, instead of dropping as expected in many quarters, whilethe local consumption of fuel has dropped by 30%, apparently due toreduced smuggling of the products to neighbouring countries Alhaji Mohammed also said the closure has so far curbed the smugglingof foreign rice into the country, in addition to other prohibiteditems. ”There has been an enhanced production and milling of Nigerian rice.Patronage of Nigerian rice has also increased and farmers areexpanding their farms as well as engaging more hands,” he said. The Minister put the value of items seized since the closure at overN3,500,000,000, listing such items as including 38,743 of 50kg bags ofparboiled foreign rice, 514 vehicles, 1,012 drums filled with PMS,5,400 Jerrycans of vegetable oil, 346 motorcycles, 10,553 Jerrycans ofPMS and 136 bags of NPK fertilizer used for making explosives. He also said 296 illegal immigrants have been arrested. ”It is important to note that 95 percent of illicit drugs and weaponsthat are being used for acts of terrorism and kidnapping in Nigeriatoday come in through our porous borders. However, since this partialclosure, these acts have been drastically reduced. Our conclusion isthat the arms and ammunition these terrorists and criminal elementswere using no longer gain access into the country. In addition, theimportation of the drugs which affect the well-being of Nigerians haveequally been reduced,” Alhaji Mohammed said He said Benin and Niger are not yet doing enough to ameliorate thechallenges that led to the border closure, adding that the magnitudeof seizures and the number of illegal immigrants recorded in the lasttwo weeks alone confirm this assertion.. ”As we speak, we have ships loaded with rice waiting to discharge (inBenin) and the target market is Nigeria (for Christmas). We have(MV Africana Jacana with 40,000 metric tons of rice, MV Zilos with20,000 mts and MV Sam Jarguar with 45,000 MTS and others,” theMinister said. He said the border closure would not have occurred if Nigeria’sneighbours had complied with the various MOUs as well as the ECOWAStransit protocols, including the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme(ETLS). ”Discussions on doing legitimate trade between Nigeria on one handand Benin and Niger on the other, started in 2005. The discussionshave led to MOUs in 2005, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, alldesigned to facilitating free movement of goods manufactured in theirrespective countries and work out the modalities through the Ministersof Trade of both countries for the realization of this objectives. ”It worth noting that there has never been legitimate transit tradebetween Nigeria and the two countries (Benin and Niger) For clarity,the ECOWAS protocol on transit demands that when a transit containerberths at a seaport, the receiving country is mandated to escort samewithout tampering with the seal to the border of the destinationcountry. Unfortunately, experience has shown that our neighbours donot comply with this protocol. ”Rather, they break the seals of containers at their ports andtrans-load goods destined for Nigeria from the original container totrucks. In most cases five containers loaded onto one truck and dutypaid as one truck. This improper trans-loading of transit goods makesit impossible to properly examine such goods, resulting in importationof illicit goods, including arms and ammunition, without beingdetected. Because goods are not examined, mis-classification andresultant loss of revenue become the ultimate consequence of thisillegitimate transit trade,” Alhaji Mohammed said. He said Exercise Swift Response, the joint border security exercisewhich was launched 20 Aug. 2019, has provided a unique platform forthe various participating agencies to jointly operate, therebystrengthening inter-agency collaboration and reducing animosity. 