Economic expert has advised that for the
4th industrial revolution to be successful in Nigeria, the political, business
and social leadership must be ready to work together to leverage the
opportunities and address necessary challenges. Dr. Babatope Ogunniyi of the Department
of Economics, University of Lagos who delivered the lead paper at the #WorldStage
EconomicSummit2019 at the Event Centre, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Lagos on
Wednesday November 13, 2019, said political
leadership should be responsible for developing and implementing an enabling
environment for digital transformation and innovation; business leadership should
be responsible for leading think tanks and the much-needed innovation; while social
leadership should play an important role in preparing society for the changes. At the annual summit with the theme, Getting
Nigeria Ready for the Challenges of the
Fourth
Industrial Revolution, the scholar noted that since political leadership in Nigeria had
recognized the 4th industrial revolution and its potential to address the
countries triple challenges of poverty, unemployment/inequality and insecurity,
the development of policies and strategies addressing digital transformation was
a sign of commitment from leadership. “The
implementation of reforms remains a major challenge as witnessed by poor policy
implementation in Africa in general and Nigeria in particular. In recent years,
the government and business leaders are yet to find a common level for
advancement; this has great impeded the much needed cooperation in preparation
for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. A level playing ground with trusting
relations and cohesion will surely advance this course, where the interests of
all are protected,” he said. “Collaboration is
critical during transformation or change. Collaboration between the various
actors in the 4th industrial revolution is critical in ensuring the success of
the 4th industrial revolution which will not only disrupt business but
government and society.” Ogunniyi said the development of
policies and strategies responsive to the priorities of Nigeria would require
that government works with business and social partners in addressing some of
the challenges and leveraging the opportunities brought by the 4th industrial
revolution. He said the introduction
of robotics in advanced manufacturing for instance would require that
government, business, workers and labor unions collaborate in coming up with
strategies to mitigate the risk of massive job losses that will further deepen
unemployment, poverty, and inequalities. “The current social,
political and economic environment has created mistrust and weakened cohesion.
Self-interest behavior and corruption in the development and implementation of
policy reforms is of great concern in Nigeria,” he said. “The 4th industrial
revolution requires developing countries like Nigeria to rise to the challenges
brought by their cultural, religion, socio-economic and economic contexts.
Developing countries need to develop models or strategies that are responsive
and relevant to their context instead of blindly adopting so-called “exemplary
models” that have worked in contexts that are different to the
developing country adopting them. “Socio-economic
challenges such as potential job losses, widening wage gaps and skills
redundancy
will require government to develop strategies that bring social benefits instead of
focusing primarily on economic prospects brought by the 4th industrial
revolution. The government should also explain how social innovations in industry
4.0 can address some of society’s challenges and improve the quality of life
and social well-being of citizens. “Finally, we
need to evolve in terms of leveraging on technology so that we can compete with
countries like India and China where technology has made tremendous impact on
their economy.” “Connectivity of industry of
today and tomorrow is aimed at production at its real time. Industry 4.0
makes communication among the different players and connected objects in a
production line possible, technology such as Cloud, Big Data
Analytics and the Industrial Internet revolution are imaginable. Already we are
seeing our tomorrow being embedded in smart cities and powered
by wind, sun and geothermal energy,” he said. “The possibilities of billions
of people connected by mobile devices, with unprecedented processing power,
storage capacity, and access to knowledge, are unlimited. All these prospects have
shown breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, robotics, the Internet,
autonomous vehicles, 3-D printing, nanotechnology, biotechnology, materials
science, energy storage, and quantum computing and many more.” He listed the challenges and opportunities of the fourth industrial
revolution to include the potential to raise global income levels and
improve the quality of life for populations around the world. “Presently, world consumers of
the new technology are beneficiaries due to access to the digital world;
technology has made possible new products and services that increase the
efficiency and pleasure to their personal lives. Ordering a cab, booking a
flight, buying a product, making a payment, listening to music, watching a film,
or playing a game, invariably all the above can now be done remotely,” he said. “It is expected that
technological innovation will also lead to a supply-side miracle, with
long-term gains in efficiency and productivity. Transportation and
communication costs will drop, logistics and global supply chains will become
more effective, and the cost of trade will diminish, all of which will open new
markets and drive economic growth. “At the same time, the
revolution would certainly disrupt the labour market which will lead to
inequality. As automation substitutes for labour across the entire economy, the
net displacement of workers by machines might exacerbate the gap between
returns to capital and returns to labour. Conversely, the displacement of
workers by technology may, in aggregate, result in a net increase in safe and
rewarding jobs. “Technology is one of the main
reasons why incomes have stagnated, or even decreased, for a majority of the
population in high-income countries: the demand for highly skilled workers has increased
while the demand for workers with less education and lower skills has
decreased. The result is a job market with a strong demand at the high and low
ends, but an excluded middle. “This explains why so many
workers are disillusioned and fearful that their own real incomes and those of
their coming generations will continue to stagnate. It also helps explain why
middle classes around the world are increasingly experiencing a pervasive sense
of dissatisfaction and unfairness. A winner-takes-all economy that offers only
limited access to the middle class is a recipe for democratic malaise and
dereliction. “Discontent can also be fueled
by the pervasiveness of digital technologies and the dynamics of information
sharing typified by social media. More than 30 percent of the global population
now uses social media platforms to connect, learn, and share information. In an
ideal world, these interactions would provide an opportunity for cross-cultural
understanding and cohesion.” On the impact on business, he said for global Chief Executive Officers
(CEOs) and senior business executives, the acceleration of innovation and the
velocity of disruption would be hard to comprehend or anticipate and that these
“drivers constitute a source of constant surprise, even for the best connected
and most well informed. “Indeed, across all industries,
there is clear evidence that the technologies that underpin the Fourth
Industrial Revolution are having a major impact on businesses,” he said. On the impact on government, he said new technologies and
platforms had increasingly enable citizens to engage with governments, voice
their opinions, coordinate their efforts, and even circumvent the supervision
of public authorities. “Concurrently, governments stand
to gain new technological powers to increase their control over populations,
based on pervasive surveillance systems and the ability to control digital
infrastructure,” he said. “On the whole, however,
governments will increasingly face pressure to change their current approach to
public engagement and policymaking, as their central role of conducting policy
diminishes owing to new sources of competition and the redistribution and
decentralization of power that new technologies make possible.” On the impact on people, he said the Fourth Industrial Revolution, “finally,
will change not only what we do but also who we are. It will affect our
identity and all the issues associated with it: our sense of privacy, our
notions of ownership, our consumption patterns, the time we devote to work and
leisure, and how we develop our careers, cultivate our skills, meet people, and
nurture relationships. Human augmentation is on its course. “Inexorable integration of
technology in our lives could diminish some of our quintessential human
capacities; our constant connection to phone may deprive us of life’s most
important asset: time. New information technologies are a great challenge to
our privacy. The tracking and sharing of information about us is a crucial part
of the new connectivity, unfortunately we are fed with information that is good,
bad and ugly. Biotechnology and Artificial Intelligence (AI), which are
redefining what it means to be human by pushing back the current thresholds of
life span, health, cognition, and capabilities, will compel us to redefine our
moral and ethical boundaries.” However, he said these new technologies and the disruption that
comes with it would not be beyond human control, saying, “all of us are
responsible for guiding its evolution, in the decisions we make on a daily
basis as citizens, consumers, and investors. We should thus grasp the opportunity
and power we have to shape the Industry 4.0 and direct it toward a future that
reflects our common objectives and values. “Developing economies, in
particular Nigeria, must develop a comprehensive and globally shared view of
how technology is affecting our lives and reshaping our economic, social,
cultural, and human environments. There has never been a time of greater
promise, or one of greater potential peril. Our policy makers, however, are too
often trapped in traditional, linear thinking, or too absorbed by the multiple
crises demanding their attention, to think strategically about the forces of
disruption and innovation shaping our future. “In the end, it all comes down
to people and values. We need to shape a future that works for all of us by
putting people first and empowering them. In its most pessimistic, dehumanized
form, the Fourth Industrial Revolution may indeed have the potential to
“robotize” humanity and thus to deprive us of our heart and soul. But as a
complement to the best parts of human nature—creativity, empathy,
stewardship—it can also lift humanity into a new collective and moral
consciousness based on a shared sense of destiny. It is incumbent on us all to
make sure the latter prevails.”