Mosron
Communications, a customised PR consultancy practice, announces its 2019
LinkedIn Optimisation training coming up November 30, December 1 and December
7. A news release from
Mosron Founder, Tolulope Olurundero, described 
the training as an annual CSR event kick-started in 2018 to help
professionals better position themselves to exploit LinkedIn opportunities,
with different segments for  job seekers
and entrepreneurs. Olorundero also
posited that whereas  LinkedIn has proven
to be the best social networking app where unsolicited proposals can be sent
directly to decision makers, many users of the site are yet to latch onto how
to do so, and are therefore not getting the best out of the LinkedIn service. She said, “15
years ago, the only way you could know that a company had a vacancy was to
either check the newspapers religiously or walk around the city of Lagos or
Kigali with your ‘I beg to apply’ letter carefully composed.” There was also very
little opportunity to carry out extensive research on a potential employer, the
company or its values, except one was fortunate enough to meet a current staff,
she added. Her motivation for
the training is premised on the fact that in spite of the great changes wrought
through LinkedIn, not many people are effectively using the tools that
technology has placed in their laps. LinkedIn is a
professional networking app built in 2002. Over time, it has progressively
gained relevance amongst Africa’s professional and business elites. With over 7
million African users, and 55% of them senior executives in organisations,
LinkedIn is a fertile ground for job seekers to communicate their value
directly to potential employers. During the first
edition, the company held a virtual training for over 250 professionals spread
across the world.  In 2019, the company
is set to break this record as it prepares to teach LinkedIn Optimisation to
10,000 plus participants via Twitter on December 1. In addition, Mosron
Communications will organise two offline trainings to be delivered in
partnership with Money Africa – a leading financial literacy organisation using
digital platforms to teach millennials healthy financial habits. “The LinkedIn
Optimisation for Professionals class will host 70 carefully selected mid-senior
level executives on November 30. On December 7, we will host another 70
carefully selected entrepreneurs for the LinkedIn Optimisation for
Entrepreneurs class,” explains Olorundero. “The focus for a
career professional is different from that of an entrepreneur and it must
reflect in the way they use the app, she explained.  Practical examples, messaging templates, and
effective sales strategies, will feature in the hands-on class that includes
exercises and optimisation review. The best part of it
all is that the training is absolutely free. “This is our way of shining the
light on the path that we have thread so that others coming after us do not
make the mistakes we made when we started out.”