In a gesture of goodwill intended to motivate quality education, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has donated educational materials to schools in the South-South and South-East geopolitical zones. The gesture is part of the Agency’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Schools in Imo, Rivers, Anambra, and Abia states benefited from the materials, which included desktop computers, laptops, uninterrupted power supply (UPS) system, white boards, exercise books, pens, pencils, white board pens, scientific calculators, and textbooks for English, Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, and Economics. Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, said the donations were in line with the Agency’s CSR mission to encourage educational excellence and stimulate national development. Dakuku, who was represented by the Head, Planning, Research, and Data Management Services, NIMASA, Mrs. Ronke Thomas, stated, “We are making these donations to encourage learning and excellence in our education system, which will ultimately inspire development. “We also intend to encourage students to build a career in maritime and help to drive the on-going efforts to unlock the vast potential of Nigeria’s blue economy. “Though a few schools have been selected for this educational support exercise, which is being conducted simultaneously across the six geopolitical zones of the country, more schools will be benefitting from this gesture in the near future.” The benefiting schools were Okrika Grammar School, Okrika; Community Secondary School, Opobo; RoyalCourt School, Rumuekini; Community Secondary School, Ubima; Umuariam Secondary Technical School, Umuariam; Abayi Girls Secondary School; and Modebe Secondary School, Onitsha. Thanking NIMASA for the kind gesture, a traditional ruler in Imo State, His Royal Highness, Eze Adison Nwaigwe, the Eze Ohachoro III of Umuariam, said, “NIMASA’s choice of these public schools for this donation is symbolic and strategic. Education can make a lot of difference between the poor and the rich. If you commit yourself to quality study, you can get to the top, irrespective of your background.” The traditional ruler, who was represented by Engr. Ebere Anosike, urged the communities hosting the benefiting schools to support the government and the schools to secure the learning materials. In his vote of thanks, the Director, Eastern Zone, NIMASA, Mr. Heaky Dimowo, praised the students’ enthusiasm in learning, saying, “We expect that this modest action of ours performed to convey our love for quality education will help to sustain and, indeed, increase the zeal of the students in education. And we urge the authorities of the recipient schools to ensure that the items are put to judicious use.”