Justice Inyang Okoro of the Supreme Court on Friday said all allegations raised by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Atiku Abubakar, challenging President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory at the Feb.23 presidential election were unproven. Abukakar, a former Vice President, who contested the election against claimed he won the election. Justice Inyang Okoro said this while giving reasons why the apex court on Oct.30 dismissed the appellants’ appeal that challenged the judgment of the presidential tribunal. The appellants had claimed that the tribunal erred in addressing all the issues raised in petition. The issues brought before the tribunal bordered on the qualification, electoral malpractice, and transmission of election results electronically, among others. In the circumstance, the appellant prayed the tribunal to rule all the issues in their favour and to go head and return Atiku as winner of the election. However, Okoro, who provided the definitive reasons by seven-man panel of justices, led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad also held that: “the appeal lacked any scintilla of merit and therefore needed to be dismissed’’. On allegations on the president’s qualification, Okoro said Buhari was eminently qualified to contest the election as sufficient evidence was adduced to confirm both his educational and candidature status that were accepted by INEC. Okoro, therefore, upheld the decision of the tribunal on the issues around the president’s qualification and possession of relevant certificates was legendary. The judge also said that Buhari was not liable of any irregularities and corrupt practices before, during and after the election as claimed by the appellants. He also said the president was not under any obligations to attach his credentials to his INEC nomination form as contested by the appellants, adding that such demand was not provided for by the Constitution. On the allegation of the use of server by INEC in transmitting results of the election to a central point, Okoro, said PDP and Atiku failed woefully by not providing evidence to substantiate such an allegation. “They were wrong to have relied on the so called results obtained  from a website not maintained by the electoral umpire, adding that the claim by Atiku that he won the election based on information from such a clandestine source was questionable. “I agree entirely with the court below that the appellants failed to prove that INEC has the server from which they got their figures. “As a result, all the results, calculations and analysis based on the results from such a source that did not belong to INEC are of no moment,’’ the judge said. On allegations of over voting, violence and malpractices, Okoro held that the failure of the appellants to call credible witnesses was fatal to their case, adding that five witnesses invited to prove such allegations was unimaginable. According to the judge, most of the issues raised by the appellants were based on to prove hearsay evidence, adding that the apex court could not grant prayers that were not proven beyond reasonable doubt.