Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has
continued its quest to provide succour for children living without limbs
through its Together4ALimb
initiative. The scheme, now in its fifth year, is the company’s flagship CSI
initiative,through which it provides prosthetic limbs to children from
underserved communities suffering from limb loss. On Saturday, November 8, Stanbic IBTC organized the fifthAnnual
Together4ALimbWalk to draw attention
to the plight and challenges faced by children living without limbs. The staff
of the organization were joined by members of their family and other well-wishers. This 2019 edition of the Walk was flagged off by YinkaSanni,
Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC. Delivering his opening remarks, he
identified the Together4ALimb initiative
as a key event organized by the company. He said: “At Stanbic IBTC, we focus on
three areas to help our communities. We focus on health, education and economic
empowerment.Together4ALimbis one of
the most important projects which we organize annually.” This year, the organization raised the number of
beneficiaries to 10, the highest since the inception of the programme five
years ago.The recipients of this year’s prosthetic limbs are five-year-old
ZainabQudus (Oyo State), six-year-old IyanuoluwaAdekoya (Ogun State) as well as
the trio of Aisha Abdulrahman (Kaduna State), Fatima Bishir (Katsina State) and
Naomi Ezeamaiwe (Delta State) who are all 10 years old. Others are UmaimaKabiru
and ShamsiyyaAdamu who are both 11 years from Kano State. AbdulfataiAbdulazeez
(Kwara State),SalamatuHusseini (Bauchi State) and HalimatuSadiya Musa(Borno
State) are all 13 years who also got prosthetic limbs under the Together4ALimb initiative. Each beneficiary was also awarded an Educational Trust worth
N1.5 million to enable them further their education with ease. Dr. DemolaSogunle, Chief Executive,Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC,
said the number of beneficiaries was increased this year in commemoration of
the 30th anniversary of Stanbic IBTC. He said: “In the past, we had
fitted 20 beneficiaries with prosthetic limbs. Since we are celebrating our 30th
anniversary this year, we felt that this number should align with the number of
beneficiaries. In 2019, we wanted to be sure that we end up with 30
beneficiaries and we have been able to achieve that.” In his remarks, the Special Guest, Dr. Adeyemi Omobowale,
Chief Executive Officer of Reddington Hospital Group, noted that the loss of a
limb produces a permanent disability that impacts a person’s self-image, care
and mobility which ultimately affects their quality of life. He however
commended theTogether4ALimb initiative
which he said would give the beneficiaries hope which they can leverage to
achieve their God-given potentials. He said: “As we all know, the goal of rehabilitation is to
help the individual return to the highest level of function and independence
while improving their physical, emotional and social wellbeing. I therefore
commend the StanbicIBTC team for this initiative to promote the rehabilitation
of those who have lost their limbs, by providing them with one of the most
effective methods which is the prosthetics; which brings them much closer to
living a normal life. Till date, the Together4ALimb
scheme has provided prosthetics for 30 beneficiaries. All recipients under
the scheme willhave their prosthetic limbs replaced annually until they are 18.


Amongst the success stories of the scheme is Happiness
Matthew who has successfully written her Senior Secondary Certificate Examination
Polytechnic Jamb examination. She is awaiting admission into Nasarawa State
Polytechnic to study Mass Communication.