A recent
report by globally renowned credit rating agency, Fitch Ratings, has affirmed
that Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Nigeria’s leading end-to-end financial
solutions provider, and Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, its banking subsidiary, have
retained their National Long-Term Ratings of AAA(nga). According to the report,
both organisations also maintained their National Short-Term Ratings of
F1+(nga). The ‘AAA
(nga)’ rating represents the highest score assigned by Fitch Ratings in its
National Rating Scale for Nigeria; and it is assigned to issuers with the
lowest expectation of default risk in comparison with other issuers in Nigeria.
The National Short-Term Rating of F1on the other hand, is bestowed on issuers
or obligations that have the strongest capacity for timely payment of financial
commitments relative to other issuers in the same country. Stanbic IBTC Bank
PLC and Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC were however rated as F1+(nga) due to their very
strong liquidity profiles. A keyrating
driver for both companies is their affiliation to South Africa’s Standard Bank
Group, their parent company. The ratings are an indication of the Standard Bank
Group’s capacity and readiness to support both organisations.Another factor
taken into cognisance during the rating process were the role of both companies
as Standard Bank’s main operations in West Africa as well as the ownership size
and high operational integration. Despite
Nigeria’s Country Ceiling Rating of B+, Fitch affirms that a downgrade of
Nigeria’s rating will not result in the lowering of the National Long-Term and
National Short-Term ratings of both Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC and Stanbic IBTC
Bank. Stanbic
IBTC Holdings PLC has its roots in the Investment Banking & Trust Company Plc (IBTC) which was formed in
1989 by a 33-year old AtedoPeterside. In 2005, IBTC merged with Chartered Bank
PLC and Regent Bank PLC to form IBTC Chartered Bank PLC. In 2007, Stanbic IBTC
Holdings PLC was formed from the merger of IBTC Chartered Bank PLC and Stanbic
Bank Nigeria Ltd. 

In 2012, the Stanbic IBTC Group officially adopted a Holding Company structure in compliance with CBN Regulation