WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria, through an initiative led by the Nigerian Embassy in France, has invited more French companies to invest in the country, in line with its efforts at diversifying the economy. The Nigerian Ambassador to France Modupe Irele, on Thursday in Abuja, at a three-day Nigeria-France Business and Investment Forum, urged French companies to key into investment opportunities in Nigeria Irele said that the Business and Investment Forum followed several inquiries on business investment opportunities to her office after French President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to Nigeria. She explained that the theme of the forum: “Talk to Action’’, was a way of bringing interested investors to Nigeria to see things for themselves and engage with local partners and government agencies. “I saw the need to take our responses beyond cursory talk to pragmatic action. This is the reason why I chose the theme for the Trade Mission. “The only way to dispel the negative stereotypes that have been entrenched in European minds about Nigeria is to bring real credible Nigerians, especially serious actors in the economy into direct contact with interested businesses from the other side. “Gathered in this room today is a group of about 25 serious companies on this economic exploratory mission, some of whom are new to Nigeria, and others who are seeking to expand their already existing businesses in Nigeria. “The economic sectors include manufacturing, real estate, renewable energy, automotive, advertising, film, entertainment, creative arts and business consulting.’’ She further listed other sectors as aeronautical training, agriculture, media, oil and gas; as well as urban development among others. “The trade mission is a means of boosting both international and domestic confidence in Nigeria and articulation of her development goals”, Irele said. The envoy also noted that the forum was a unique opportunity for delegates to have a direct Nigerian experience and to interact with people who would show them Nigeria’s destination in the next few years. Irele urged them to see Nigeria for the country that it is – a hospitable and rich economy – and not label it as unsafe. In his address, Mr Edet Akpan, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, said the visit of the French delegates to have an insight on Nigeria’s Business environment and investment opportunities was timely. Akpan said the forum was coming at a time that the Nigerian government had created a platform for investment and trade exchange; and was also desirous of deepening relationships with other countries. He said the Nigerian government had ensured that the right policies and incentives were put in place to create an enabling environment for investors. “As you are aware, Nigeria is the largest economy in Sub-Saharan Africa with a population of about 200 million people; and the country is deeply blessed with arable land and natural resources. “Though oil still remains a major contributor to National income, however, with the challenges in the oil sector, it has become evident that oil alone cannot sustain Nigeria’s economy. “For this reason, there are continuing efforts on government’s side to diversify the nation’s economy in other to have a robust national income for economic development,’’ Akpan said. He urged the French government and investors from France to take advantage of the unique opportunity Nigeria has to offer in terms of abundant resources, vibrant skilled youths and strong institutions. The Nigeria-France Business and Investment Forum is an initiative established on Oct. 1, 1960, which aims at strengthening trade relations between the two countries.