As the world marks International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, medical experts have called on the three tiers of government in Nigeria to review policies on mental health. They made the calls in interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Lagos. According to them, governments need to increase its investment in mental health by passing the Mental Health Bill and have a health policy on mental health. NAN reports that the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking is a United Nations International Day observance against drug abuse and illegal drug trade. It is observed globally on June 26 and the theme for 2019 is: “Health for Justice, Justice for Health’’. Speaking, Dr Raphael Ogbolu, a Consultant Psychiatrist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, said:“Governments need to be serious about passing the Mental Health Bill neglected by the previous administrations. “The Mental Health Bill can help to expand the coverage of treatment for mental disorders under the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). “We need to have policies for those involved in proper and truly professional drug abuse treatment to enable them to establish proper drug rehabilitation centres through exemptions and low interest loans.’’ He said that proper mental health programmes in schools should start early before the age of 10 years in order to proactively address the problem. “The role of religious bodies are very important on drug abuse, because they can assist to enlighten their members on dangers of drug abuse,’’ Ogbolu said. He also called for invest on drug abuse research locally, saying there is need for thorough and coordinated research, because drug addiction has become rampant in the country. “Most of the drugs taken are sophisticated, and we need to know how people get addicted into the habit in order to keep abreast of what the factors are. “We can’t be using approaches of five years ago to address drug abuse today, otherwise we have already failed. “This research has to be local, not the ones foreign agencies tell us about our drug abuse problems. “By local, I mean they need to involve those who are actually involved in solving the problems, not gathering a few experts and saying you have conducted research,’’ he said. Also, Mr Andrew Saba, a Pharmacist, told NAN that governments need to review the policies on mental health and restrict access to drugs that were being abused. “There is need to implement strictly the provisions for a sanitised drug distribution system. “Drugs should not be available to everybody, and laws against illicit sale and distribution of medicines must be enforced. “The drug abuse problem in Nigeria has deteriorated terribly with a huge statistics of drug addicts in the country. “It means governments need to put in place adequate plans for socioeconomic improvements by providing job opportunities and funds youth entrepreneur,” Saba said.