In furtherance of its commitment to programmes aimed at ensuring that Nigeria keeps pace in the technologies and competencies that will define the 21st  century and beyond, through people empowerment, capacity and institutions building, Honeywell Group Limited has partnered with theLagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) to help youths in Lagos State acquire relevant skills required to compete in today’s global marketplace. This Talent Development Programme, which will be run under LSETF’s Lagos Innovates Programme, will provide student loans that cover up to 80% of training cost for beneficiaries, who are then trained by any of LSETF training partners, for up to 3 months. Some of the courses offered are Full Stack Development with JavaScript (React JS, NodeJs, Express and Mongo DB + API Development), Full Stack Development for Mobile Applications (React Native, API Development), Python Programming for Web and Data Science. (PYTHON OOP, DJANGO & Data Science, and Frontend Design & Engineering: (UI/UX, HTML, CSS, ES6 & React JS). To pilot the first phase of this pivotal programme, Honeywell Group has provided the sum of N10 million (Ten Million Naira), which will be matched by LSETF, to provide a total pool of N20 million, to train the first batch of students. Commenting on the partnership, Head Innovation & Sustainability of Honeywell Group, Tomi Otudeko said; “We are pleased to partner with LSETF on this strategic and exemplary initiative that will impact positively on the lives of young people in Lagos State. We are impressed by the work LSETF is doing; and our investment in technology training is borne, first, out of our stated mission to “use enterprise to make our world better” and, secondly, out of our conviction that to innovate and thrive in the new economy, young people need to build tech skills.” “We have also seen how well LSETF, through its Lagos Innovates Programme, has made its mark in progressing the Lagos-based tech ecosystem. The decision to work with LSETF was therefore an easy one. Together, we are poised to help build a pipeline of the next level of innovators who would develop disruptive technologies that will provide solutions to some of the critical social challenges facing the country.” Also commenting, Teju Abisoye, the Acting Executive Secretary/CEO of LSETF stated; “We are glad to work with Honeywell Group, to build a talent pool of globally competitive professionals, whilst actualising one of the most important mandates of the LSETF; which is to improve the skills and employability of the young people in the State. Both the LSETF and Honeywell Group are committed to ensuring that young people are equipped to support the growing start-up ecosystem in Nigeria, in addition to positioning themselves for a growing global freelance market. I hope more organisations will emulate Honeywell Group and partner with us on our various programmes.”