WorldStage NewsOnline—-The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Lagos has promised obey traffic laws in the state. Its chairman, Alhaji Tajudeen Agbede, said this on Wednesday while speaking with the Newsin Lagos. Agbede, however, pleaded for time to keep his members abreast of the traffic laws operational in the state. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu signed his first Executive Order on indiscriminate refuse dumping, traffic management and Public Works a day after his inauguration. There, he reiterated the need for residents to obey rules contained in the executive order. The governor also charged the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) to arrest motorists that flout traffic laws and ensure they are punished accordingly, irrespective of their statuses. Agbede said, “We are law abiding citizens but we want to plead with the government to give us time to call our members to order. “We are in support of the government of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, but we plead that the government should always carry the unions along while making traffic laws. “We also believe that any law the government makes is in the interest and for the good of its citizens.” He also implored all NURTW members to always obey all the traffic laws put in place by the state government. He also advised them to always ensure that their vehicle particulars are valid and they should have genuine driving licences. He said that these were the certificates they needed to be on the road. Agbede also urged his members to always put waste paper baskets in their vehicles for passengers’ use and warned against driving against traffic. The NURTW chairman also called on the passengers to use the bins provided in the vehicles by the drivers rather than throwing refuse away through the vehicles’ windows. “Commuters intending to board commercial motorcycles (a.k.a. Okada) must always demand for crash helmets before boarding. “They must also refuse the riders from carrying more than one passenger during a trip,” he said.