The National President,  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Mr Ayuba Wabba  on Thursday dispelled ongoing reports that negotiations between the organised labour and the Technical Committee on Consequential Adjustment of the new minimum wage had stopped. Wabba who disclosed this in Abuja said that  negotiations were still ongoing. He said even although the NLC and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) were not directly involved in the negotiations, they would step in if any disagreement occurred. It would be recalled that the new minimum wage bill was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari in April. However, deliberations were ongoing as the issue of relativity/consequential adjustment of salaries still persisted. The Federal Government had on May 14 inaugurated the relativity/Consequential Adjustment Committee which in turn set up a Technical Sub-Committee to work out the template for the adjustment of salaries of Public Service Employees. However, with negotiations resuming on Aug. 14, Wabba noted that Nigerian workers had waited so long for the new minimum wage. Wabba said people would want to see an end for its full implementation, adding that it was the desire of the organised labour that this became a reality. “In spite of that the NLC and TUC are not directly involved during the process of consequential adjustment, the process is ongoing; because I read in the papers of how people were saying it had stopped. “The report that I read from the Joint Negotiating Council is that they are meeting, and if there is any stalemate we will be informed and will step in to assist and all the details of their discussions have been made public.’’ Wabba said that the delay on the issue was not caused by the NLC. “For anybody on that table to come and say that labour is the one delaying the process he/she is not saying the obvious. “This is because I learnt that the person that made the statement is the chairman of the technical committee; so clearly speaking, I think it is not in good faith. “I think also that workers are becoming very concerned, including us because the process must actually have an end where workers will benefit. “How can a worker or unions that are at the receiving end be the ones delaying the process. “`For us as a union we wanted this money to be in workers pockets long before now.’’