WorldStage Newsonline– YIAGA AFRICA has condemned the deployment of political thugs that visibly attacked voters and disrupted elections in some polling stations in Kano and Benue states without any resistance from security agencies. Yiaga Africa, an independent electoral observers group, said it received reports on voter suppression manifested in the form of denying voters access to polling units by political thugs. YIAGA AFRICA Watching The Vote (WTV)’s Chair, Dr. Hussaini Abdu alongside YIAGA AFRICA Executive Director, Samson Itodo, at a Press conference in Abuja on Saturday, noted the intimidation of observers and media reporters in Zango PU 021, Karaye ward 03, Karaye LGA in Kano state, that observers and media reporters were chased away by political party thugs. The electoral observer group said it also received reports of destruction of the election materials, clash between political party agents and political thugs which resulted in disruption of the process. It said for instance, “Election materials for Azendi-Eshi Council Ward-02 of Ukum LGA in Benue state were burnt before deployment to polling units. This affected the commencement of the elections in all the polling units under this ward. “In Tse Akough- Near Tse Ak Polling unit 012, Yaav Ward, Kwande LGA in Benue state, a political party thug attempted to snatch the ballot papers and it resulted to a fracas between party agents at the polling unit. The security officials intervened by providing security for INEC officials. “A clash between APC and PDP supporters disrupted the process and threatened voters and observers access to Naadatul Islam primary school polling unit, Gwammaja ward 21, Dala LGA and PU  021 (Zango 4), Karaye ward of Karaye LGA, Kano state. This was later resolved after the police intervened. “In Kofar Gidan Litti Kulku l, PU 020, Yelwa ward 12 of Dala LGA, Kano state, voting process commenced after 10am due to disruption of the electoral process and determination of political party thugs to prevent commencement of polls. Voting was also disrupted in Dudu PU 010, Rara ward 03, Raba LGA in Sokoto as political thugs were reported to have snatched the ballot box for the polling unit.” On vote buying, YIAGA AFRICA disclosed that widespread reports of vote buying and selling were received from polling units in Plateau, Kano and Benue states. YIAGA AFRICA noted the resilience demonstrated by registered voters in some states to cast their vote in the supplementary elections. Kano, Bauchi and Sokoto recorded an appreciable level of turnout of women and youths for the election. According to, Dr. Abdu,  in view of the contentious nature of the elections in some states, INEC should strengthen its oversight on the results collation process. He said, “Judging from experience, collation and returning officers should be put under strict supervision as the collation process begins to halt any attempt to cancel votes arbitrarily.” For the Governorship supplementary elections, YIAGA AFRICA said it deployed 258 stationary polling unit observers, 6 roving observers and 97 LGA results collation centre observers. The observers were properly trained to observe the entire election day process from opening and setup of the polling units, accreditation, voting, announcement and posting of the official results.