WorldStage NewsOnline— As Nigerians prepare for the Saturday’s House of Assembly and governorship elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), says it has started the distribution of sensitive election materials in Bayelsa, Osun, Edo, Kaduna, Kano and other states of the federation. Mr Monday Udoh, the Bayelsa state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), on Thursday in Yenagoa said that the distribution of the sensitive election materials to the various local government areas commenced on Thursday and would be completed before the end of Friday. He warned against engaging in any violent act before, during and after the poll. “The commission has made all necessary arrangements to ensure maximum security of lives and property across the state. “We had several meetings with various critical stakeholders in the state; we must understand that INEC is not here for the interest of any group or persons but for the interest of Nigerians,’’ he said. In Osun State, Mr Olusegun Agbaje, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), distributed the electoral materials in the presence of political party agents at the Central Bank of Nigeria premises in Osogbo. “What we have left here this year in Osun is the House of Assembly or what we call state constituency election. “The state has 26 House of Assembly seats and we have 22 local government areas in the state that will produce one representative each. “Eight local government areas will produce four representatives that is one representative for two local government areas. “What we are doing today is distributing the election materials to these local government areas, starting with the eight local government areas that are sharing one constituency/producing one representative. “The other 22 local government areas/constituencies that are standing alone will follow; this means that they will get their materials distributed after. “The materials – ballot papers and result sheets are here,’’ Agbaje said. The sensible materials according to INEC are also being distributed in Edo, Kaduna, Kano, Rivers, Lagos, Anambra and other part of the country.