In line with the commitment to deliver reforms aimed at
improving the enabling environment for doing business in Nigeria through
systemic interventions, the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council
(PEBEC) has commenced the fourth 60-day National Action Plan (NAP 4.0) on Ease of
Doing Business (EoDB). The NAP 4.0, which will run from the 1st of March to the
29th of April, 2019 aims to further reduce the challenges encountered by SMEs
and businesses in identified areas of focus such as starting a business,
getting credit, paying taxes, enforcing contracts or trading within and across
borders, amongst others, by eliminating critical bottlenecks and constraints to
doing business in Nigeria. The first, second and third National Action Plans on Ease of
Doing Business, which were coordinated by Enabling Business Environment
Secretariat (EBES) of the Council, have resulted in significant progress over
the past 3 years. Working in collaboration with the ministries, departments and
agencies (MDAs), the fourth National Action Plan is anticipated to strengthen
these ongoing reforms, and improve the Ease of Doing Business frameworks
adopted. Some of the targets achieved in NAP 3.0 include driving
registration for utilization of the National Collateral Registry to facilitate
access to credit for SMEs; clearance of all pending NAFDAC registration
applications to improve efficiency; and creation of a strengthened single joint
cargo examination interface in all airports & seaports for import and
export to reduce the time spent at the ports. In a statement, the Honourable Minister for Industry, Trade
& Investment and line minister for the intervention, Dr. Okey Enelamah
said, “The NAP 4.0 has been launched to deepen the reforms delivered and drive
institutionalization. We have highlighted key action items in each of the focus
areas to ensure the reforms delivered do not unravel, and to ensure we drive
sustainability.” Also speaking on the commencement, the PEBEC Secretary and
Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade & Investment,
Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, said: “The Council will continue to work extensively with
all MDAs, the National Assembly and various arms of government on various
reforms critical to an enabling business environment. For the NAP 4.0, these
include targets such as enforcing compliance with SLAs across all focus areas,
driving the passage of the CAM Bill 2018 for improved effectiveness of company
law in Nigeria, enhancing efficiency in the small claims court, and enhancing
the application and approval system for visas on arrival, to mention a few.” She further stated, “We will also engage public and private
sector stakeholders, and intensify efforts to communicate the reforms to ensure
the benefits are realised. We have already started a number of communication
initiatives, including setting up a website for access to all information on
all reforms at www.businessmadeeasy.ng” PEBEC was established in 2016 to oversee Nigeria’s business
climate reform agenda, and is Chaired by His Excellency the Vice President,
Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, with the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and
Investment as Vice Chair. PEBEC’s model aligns with global best practice and
includes a strong performance tracking element that is measured by the World
Bank Ease of Doing Business Index (DBI), which is reported annually.