Professor Benedict Oramah, President of the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), Cairo, Egypt, will deliver The Bullion Lecture 2019. Professor Oramah who is also Chairman, Board of Directors, Afreximbank, currently serves on the Practitioner Advisory Board of the Institute for Trade and Innovation of Offenburg University, Gengenbach, Germany. He is also a member of the Emerging Markets Advisory Council of the Institute of International Finance, and an Executive Committee Member of the Factors Chain International. Professor Oramah equally serves on the Editorial Board of the Journal of African Trade. Professor Oramah will be speaking on Leveraging The African Intercontinental Free
Trade Agreement for Nigeria’s Economic Development. The Bullion
Lecture, a platform conceptualised by Centre for Financial Journalism (CFJ
Nigeria) for lively discourse on national and international issues, is always
delivered by first-rate academics or professional. The 2019 edition of The Bullion Lecture will hold
10am on Tuesday, March 26, 2019 at The Civic Centre, Ozumba Mbadiwe Avenue,
Victoria Island, Lagos. According to a press statement issued in Lagos by
Ray Echebiri, Founder/Chief Executive Officer of CFJ Nigeria, the Lecture will
be chaired by Dr. Uche Olowu, President/Chairman of Council, The Chartered Institute
of Bankers of Nigeria, while Honourable Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed
will be the Special Guest of Honour. Distinguished panelists who will dissect the
lecture are Mr. Muda Yusuf, Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and
Industry; and Mr. Ade Adefeko, Vice President, Government and Corporate
Affairs, Olam Nigeria. Expected
guests at the lecture include government officials, captains of industry, banking
industry executives, members of the diplomatic corps, representatives of
multilateral institutions, senior media executives and other journalists, and
members of the public. CFJ Nigeria, organisers of The Bullion Lecture,
was established to provide specialised training programmes in financial
journalism with a view to addressing the knowledge and skills gap in the
practice of the trade, and to conduct research on financial journalism,
business, the economy, development and banking and finance.