WorldStage NewsOnline— As part of efforts to enhance learning in the country, the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has announced plan to distribute 1050 branded student chairs and tables to selected schools across nationwide. The council’s Head, National Office, Mr Olu Adenipekun, made the disclosure at a news conference on Monday in Lagos. According to him, the branded chairs and tables will be distributed to selected schools that had served as venues for the coordination of its examiners and marking of candidates’ scripts for the council’s West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) in the country. “The vision of the council is to be a world-class examination body adding value to the educational goals of its stakeholders. “In line with this vision therefore, the council in Nigeria has placed premium on the Nigerian child. “Over the years, the council has lived up to its mandate and has provided qualitative and reliable educational assessment, encouraged academic and moral excellence, promoted sustainable human resources development and international corporation. “Therefore, in order to give back to its stakeholders, even as a non-profit making organisation, corporate social responsibility remains the hallmark of WAEC. “We have supported the Nigerian child in so many ways, but today, we have decided to take it further. “To this end, council in Nigeria has purchased 1050 pieces of branded student chairs and tables for distribution to some selected schools in the country,’’ he said. Adenipekun said that WAEC in Nigeria operated on zonal and branch office basis, with 12 zonal offices, 21 branch offices two satellite offices and one liaison office. According to him, a total of 84 schools are currently being used by the council as venues for the marking of candidates’ scripts, for both the school and private candidates WASSCE, spread across the country. The WAEC boss noted that 21 out of the 84 schools serving as marking venues were selected from 10 states across the country, namely, Sokoto, Oyo, Abia, Kwara, Bayelsa, Plateau, Edo, Kogi, Nasarawa and Delta. “These are the first batch of the beneficiaries for this noble initiative. “Each of the selected 21 schools is to receive a total of 50 pieces of these WAEC branded tables and chairs, signaling the flag off of this project. “The 2018 CSR project has covered 21 out of the 84 schools serving as marking venues. By the end of the second quarter of 2020, we would have touched all the schools serving as marking venues in Nigeria. “In addition to these branded student chairs and tables going to these 21 schools, five sets will also go to the teachers in the identified schools. “This is our own way of saying thank you to these schools that have supported council in the conduct of the WASSCE in Nigeria by availing us the use of their facilities, despite other commitments and challenges,’’ he said. Speaking further of the breakdown on the distribution of the branded tables and chairs for students, the HNO explained that four identified schools in Ibadan, Oyo, would receive 200 of the items, while two identified schools at Umuahia in Abia would take delivery of 100 pieces of the tables and chairs. He said that 150 student tables and chairs would be distributed to three schools in Asaba, Delta, while one school will receive 50 of the items in Lafia, Nasarawa. According to him, one school in Yenegoa, in Bayelsa and two identified schools in Sokoto will be taking delivery of 50 and 100 branded tables and chairs respectively. Adenipekun said that three other schools in Ilorin, Kwara and another three schools in Benin, Edo, would also take delivery of 150 of the items respectively. He added that one identified school also used as marking venue for the WASSCE in Jos, Plateau and another one in Lokoja, Kogi, would be receiving 50 pieces of the branded chairs and table each. The HNO urged stakeholders to join hands with the council in taking further steps in expanding its corporate social responsibility in an attempt to provide a more conducive environment for academic excellence.