The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFMI) has trained 108 Bakassi Displaced Persons and Cameroonian Refugees in Calabar on skill acquisition programmes. The beneficiaries, who underwent a five days acquisition empowerment training, were trained on phone repairs, cosmetology, oil and fish processing. The commission trained 54 Cameroonian Refugees on phone repairs and cosmetology while 54 Bakassi displaced persons were trained on oil and fish processing. Speaking, the Federal Commissioner of NCFRMI, Mrs Sadiya Umar-Farouk, said on Sunday in Calabar that the training would enable the beneficiaries to be self reliant. The Commissioner, who was represented by Mr Akintunde Oyasanya, the Zonal Coordinator South-South, said grants would be given to beneficiaries that excel in their businesses after the commission’s monitoring and evaluation report. She also presented starter packs and certificates to all the beneficiaries to aid them in their businesses. “There is no point giving people fish all the time but its better to teach people how to fish by themselves. “That is the only sustainable assistance governments, groups and individuals can render for a meaningfully impact on them,” the Commissioner said. She described as unfortunate the series of natural and man-made events which causes displacement of persons. Umar-Farouk called on corporate bodies and groups to rise up to the challenge of channeling energy and resources towards alleviating the deplorable conditions of displaced persons. Responding, one of the beneficiaries, Ms Claris Ntui, who was trained on cosmetology, thanked the commission for the training and for empowering them with starter packs. Ntui said that the items would spur her to set up a small business and be self reliant. Also, Mr Andrew Okon, who was trained in fish processing, commended the commission for alleviating their plight. Okon, lives in a maritime area, promised to make judicious use of the items.