Some Information and Communications Technology experts on Friday described the Blockchain as a good record-keeping system that can change lives. The experts were members of a panel during the African Women In Technology (AWIT) Conference with the theme: “Awaken The TechAzon Within’’. Anele Makhwaza, Group Treasurer, Atlas Holding Group Inc. described blockchain as a record-keeping system that should be made available to participants. Makhwaza said that it could change lives for instance to access health report of individuals in an emergency situation. According to her, data is your habit and daily life, practical use of blockchain was helping people get land titles and bank loans. “If you have medical records on blockchain, it would give easy access of health care records of patients. “These are opportunities that help ordinary people access data that can change their lives. “Also solving challenges of getting education for girls and children,’’ Makhwaza said. She also said that there was an ongoing process on the use of blockchain by Customs to track goods coming into the country. She said it could also check substandard products. Mrs Gbonjubola Amuda, Software Engineer, Flutterewave, said that one of the things that the blockchain would solve was to have transparency in the system. She said that blockchain in education was to have a process of having information for students. According to her, if one has to attend a school abroad, no need of asking the school for a transcript but it would be accessed on the blockchain. She said that it was possible with a system that was centralised. Mrs Tolulope Omoleye, Senior Associate, Udo Udoma and Bello Osagie, said that blockchain in education would promote efficiency and transparency and reduce missing results in higher institutions. Omoleye said that as the country gets more advanced and developed, it could be applied to how contracts were transacted and information centralised. She, however, said that “one does not need to learn how to code before interpreting information on blockchain’’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the panel discussed the topic: “Blockchain: The Big Comeback’’.