WorldStage NewsOnline—-The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced plan to conduct supplementary elections in  36 polling units spread across 29 wards in 15 Local Government Areas of Bauchi state on Saturday. Alhaji Ibrahim Abdullahi,  the Bauchi  state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC)  disclosed this while addressing stakeholders in Bauchi on Thursday. According to him, a total of 22, 759 registered voters are expected to participate in the exercise. He gave a  breakdown of the affected local government areas and number of polling units as  Alkaleri, one ward, two polling units (PU) ; Bogoro, one ward, one PU ; Darazo, three wards, four PU; Dass, one ward, one PU and Gamawa, one ward, one PU. Ganjuwa has two wards, two PU; Giade, four wards, four PU;  Itas Gadau, one ward, three PU;  Jama’are, two wards, two PU and Katagum, two wards, three PU. Others are Kirfi, two wards, two PU; Misau, one Ward, one PU; Ningi, four wards, five PU; Shira, one ward,one PU and Toro, three wards and four PU. The REC urged the stakeholders and their supporters to be patient and law-abiding. He also said the issue of Tafawa Balewa LGA  elections was before the court of law and further discussion on that would be subjudice. The  Returning Officer of the governorship election in Bauchi state, Prof. Kyari Mohammed, had on Monday, 11th March, 2019, declared the governorship election in the state as inconclusive. In the results so far released, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  governorship candidate,  Sen. Bala Mohammed, is in the lead with  469, 512 votes as against the 465,453 votes scored by incumbent Governor, Mohammed Abubakar of the All Progressives Congress (APC). A fact-finding committee from INEC headquarters  had directed  the continuation of collation of governorship polls results in respect of  Tafawa Balewa Local  Government Area but  a Federal High Court in Abuja issued an order stopping further  collation . The state governor, Mohammed Abubakar filed a suit seeking stoppage of the exercise pending the hearing of his complaints on the exercise.