WorldStage NewsOnline—-The All Progressives Congress (APC) has rejected plans to share legislative powers with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 9th National Assembly. Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the APC National Publicity Secretary, stated this at an interactive session with newsmen on Wednesday at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Issa-Onilu said that the APC would not share legislative powers with the PDP because according to him, it is capable of running the government alone. He said that in every democracy any party that had the majority number automatically produced the President of the Senate, and that Nigeria would not be an exception. Issa-Onilu said the APC already had the number to produce the President of the Senate and other leadership positions in the Senate and House of Representatives. “Nigerians had given us more than we had in the outgoing Senate, so we have enough in terms of numbers of Senators to elect all our officers. “It will be an exercise in futility for the PDP to want to share from what Nigerians had taken away from them. “We don’t need a single vote from the PDP, and in any case, we don’t actually envisage any election on that day,” the APC National Publicity Secretary said. He said that all the APC needed to do was to present it’s members to occupy the leadership positions in the Senate and House of Representatives as a collective decision of the party in line with its Constitution. Issa-Onilu, however, said that the PDP was free to also nominate its candidates if it desired, but stated that the APC would not contest any position in the Senate with it, or any other opposition party. According to him, Sen. Lawal Ahmed remained the APC’s choice for the President of the Senate in the 9th Senate. He said that the decision had not been controverted since it was taken by the party’s leadership. The APC spokesman said that notwithstanding the party had several other elected and returning senators with huge pedigree to choose from, Lawan was favoured among them.