The Kaduna State Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) has called on the Federal  Government to continue to remove bureaucratic constraints to doing business in Nigeria. The President of KADCCIMA, Dr Muheeba Dankaka, made the call when the chamber officials paid a courtesy visit on the management of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. The delegation was received by the Managing Director of NAN, Mr Bayo Onanuga, the Editor-in-Chief, Mr Idris Abdulrahman, and other members of the NAN management team. The visit was to garner publicity for the forthcoming Kaduna International Trade Fair scheduled to hold from March 29  to Sunday April 7. Dankaka applauded the country’s progress in making it easier to start and grow a business in the country. She urged the government to implement fully, the steps laid out on Ease of Doing Business by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council . Dankaka also spoke on the importance of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) to the Nigerian economy. “Kaduna State has a lot of products to export to other African nations. “Kaduna State has the best quality of ginger in the market. We are also major growers of maize, soyabeans, sorghum and tomatoes. “When Nigeria signs the AfCFTA and it comes into effect, we will bring in the necessary foreign exchange to increase our reserves and grow the economy,” she said. Speaking on the upcoming Kaduna International Trade Fair, Mr Ishaya Idi, a Council Member of  KADCCIMA, said that there were some flagship events lined up during the 10-day fair. “The 40th Trade Fair is a special fair for us. Most people don’t know that KADCCIMA was the first chamber of commerce to stage an international trade fair in Nigeria. “We are happy that we have attained 40 now, so we will celebrate it in big way with more local and international exhibitors,” he said. Idi said that the chamber will use the opportunity of the fair to honour its founding members and beneficiaries of the chamber’s initiatives. Another KADCCIMA Council Member, Alh. Farouk Suleiman, said that investors would be exposed to the economic potential of Kaduna State during the fair.