Eko Electricity Distribution Company Plc (EKEDC), said it
would commence demolition of illegal constructions under its right of way,
while warning  customers to desist from
illegal connection or face grave consequences. The Chief Executive
Officer, EKEDC, Mr  Adeoye Fadeyibi,
disclosed this at a customer consultative town hall meeting with Apapa electricity
customers in Lagos. Fadeyibi, said that the town hall meeting became important
to rob minds with customers within its network on the challenges facing the
company. According to him, it will also fashion way of addressing
such problems amicably. He said the essence of the town hall meeting was also to
discuss with customers on how to improve on service delivery. Fadebiyi said, “The continuous engagement with customers has
been a long-standing customer’s relationship that has been built overtime which
needs to be sustained. “We have agreed to
engage our customers based on the complaint that previous administration was
not doing enough on customers’ service delivery. “So far, we have been
able to recorded about 150 per cent improvement customers’ service delivery.” He decried the high rate of energy theft and illegal
constructions along the company’s right of way by customers within the network. The EKEDC helmsman said the measure became necessary against
the backdrop of billion lost to various forms of energy theft and vandalism in
the zone. He warned: “Any act of infraction will be met with a stiff
penalty. Enough is enough; Eko Disco will no longer tolerate this act of
illegal tampering of our equipment and electrical installations. “Tampering with Eko
Disco meters, installations, distribution lines, equipment or assault on any
field worker will attract a jail term. “The management of EKEDC will no longer handle these actions
with kid gloves; this is no empty threat. If you disregard this warning, you do
so at your own risk,” he said.” The EKEDC boss said it cost the company a huge amount to
replace vandalised equipment and meters damaged by customers in a bid to bypass
the meters. Fadeyibi also said the company would henceforth commence
effective prosecution of energy theft suspects, and also publish their names in
the national dailies. “We appeal to our
customers to avoid engaging in by-passing the meters because it’s criminal and
punishable under the Electricity Regulation Code of Conduct Act. “l advise our
customers to exercise a little patience with EKEDC, as we promise to address
all issues regarding billings, metering, and other challenges.” The CEO added that the newly introduced Metering Assets
Providers (MAP) by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), would
address metering challenges when it finally kicks off. He said that company had completed all the process regarding
MAP, adding that it was working on finalizing enumeration. “We are ready from
our own end, but expecting the regulator to give go-ahead. He said that the company was expected to commence effective
metering of its customers under the MAP arrangement this month, once the
regulator gives its go-ahead. Fadayibi also said that the company would commence cashless
payment of electricity bills in April, adding that the company did not want the
staff to handle cash anymore. According to him, Eko staff will no longer be handling cash
any more, meaning  that customers are
excepted to pay their bills through banks and accredited agents . “We do not want our staff take the risk of handling cash
directly. We have designated agents at all our district offices, they will
handle cash but for us we are no longer handling cash. “We urge customers to embrace modern electronic payment for
electricity consumption, as we works towards eliminating cash payment. “The effort is to reduce payment queues at some of the
EKEDC offices and embracing electronic payment options that will make customers
enjoy conveniences,’’ he said. He explained that the new payment options were designed to
offer all customers security, greater convenience and choice, and also intended
to make the payment process more efficient. “There is really no need to come to the office for payment. “ Customers will save themselves from the inconvenience of
being defrauded if they always make payments through our approved channels and
collect their receipts “By expanding our payment platforms, customers can now make
payments and purchase tokens seamlessly by using scratch card vouchers,. “These are sold by
vendors and agents across its networks. “An example is
Quick-teller which can be accessed on mobile devices and through internet
banking on online banking portals. “We are committed to providing our customers with the
greatest level of customer service and introducing these multiple secure and
convenient payment channels is yet another aspect of our service offering,’’ he
said. The Area Commandant Area ‘B’ ACP Mohammed Adamu commended
the company for the appreciable improvement in power supply in Apapa axis,
while warning electricity consumers to desist from attacking EKEDC’s officials. He urged consumers to use dialogue in addressing disputes
than engaging in violence and attacking official in the course of doing their
official duty.