WorldStage NewsOnline— President, Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote will on April 3 lead stakeholders in the business community to the fourth edition of Kaduna Economic and Investment Summit (KADInvest). Executive Secretary of Kaduna State Investment Promotion Agency, Umma Aboki made the disclosure on Wednesday in Kaduna while briefing newsmen on preparations for the event. According to her, KADInvest is an annual platform for showcasing the rich investment opportunities Kaduna State offers across many sectors of the economy. She noted that, since the first edition in 2016, KADInvest has enabled the state to establish a reputation for ease of doing business in Nigeria and a destination  of choice for investors especially in agriculture, tractor assembly, solar power and mass housing. ”We are proud that the World Bank’s Doing Business Report 2018 ranked Kaduna State as Number One for Ease of Doing Business. ”This was achieved through policy and legislation that removed encumbrances to businesses and fast-tracked approval and licensing processes.” She explained that government agencies have remained committed to the Ease of Business Charter agreed during  the KADInvest 2.0. ”The groundbreaking Tax Codification and Consolidation Law passed in 2015 removed the danger of multiple taxation or harassment of businesses by different agencies. “Rather, the law listed all taxes and levies payable in the state in one document and created the Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service as the sole collector of revenues. “The government also established the Kaduna Geographic Information Service (KADGIS) to build and run a digital land registry for the state, among other initiatives. “Investors have taken notice that Olam Poultry and Feed mill project is a shining example of the $500m investments that have been attracted to the state since 2015. “GB Foods and Tomato Jos are actively developing their tomato projects, Mahindra is assembling tractors in our state while Blue Camel is showing the possibilities of solar energy and training our youths in the skills that sector requires. “KADInvest is key to the government’s strategy of investments and jobs,” she said. According to her, KADInvest 4.0 is about Expanding Investment Frontiers as the government, development partners and investors empower the people with skills and jobs.