Union Bank marked International Women’s Day with the launch of its women’s proposition, Alpher. Alpher was unveiled as part of the Bank’s annual celebrations to mark the global movement to accelerate gender parity across the world. Alpher
is a platform to ‘enable success’ and empower women across all segments of the
Nigerian society through capacity building opportunities, networking platforms,
scholarships and tailored financial services for women. The
Bank also awarded 40 scholarships to women entrepreneurs to build their capacity
through the Enterprise & Leadership Program (ELP) organised
by China Europe
International Business School (CEIBS) in partnership with Leading
Ladies Africa. Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Emeka Emuwa, members
of the Board of Directors and employees were joined by customers and partners
to celebrate women and support the push for gender parity. The event also featured a panel discussion on Accelerating
Parity; Challenging the Status Quo’. Panelists
included Uchenna Agbo, Founder, TrustVas; Abisoye Ajayi-Akinfolarin, Founder,
Pearls Africa Youth Foundation and CNN Hero; Francesca Uriri, Founder, Leading Ladies Africa and ZeeZee Ihe-Okuneye, marriage and relationship counsellor. Speaking concerning the Alpher launch and IWD celebrations, Mr. Emuwa said; ” I am especially pleased that we are unveiling Union Bank’s proposition for women. We are excited about the platform we have developed to support and enable success for women across board. I personally believe that the world, especially Nigeria, would be a much better place if it is balanced and women have full agency to be all that they can be.” In past years, Union Bank has used the
IWD platform to highlight its commitment to women’s causes including the launch
of its women community WeHub in 2016 and the live performance of the women’s
advocacy play ‘Hear Word’ in 2018.  From Right– Ololade
Awogbade, Lead Citizenship and Sustainability, Union Bank; Francesca Uriri,
Founder, Leading Ladies Africa and Nkem Okocha, Founder MamaMoni at the event.