WorldStage NewsOnline— The Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) on Wednesday  denied reports that the office  is owing ex-agitators stipends and allowances. Mr Murphy Ganagana, Special Assistant Media to the Coordinator, PAP, Prof. Charles Dokubo, made this known in an  interview in Abuja while responding to claims by some people that the Amnesty office owed. Ganagana said that the payment of allowances to the beneficiaries have been regular and prompt ever since the present leadership took over the management of the Amnesty programme. “As we speak today, we are not owing ex-agitators under the Amnesty programme any stipends, in-training  or books allowances,. We have paid up-to -date as funds are being released. “We are also not owing in-training allowances to any scholarship beneficiary of the programme, especially those within the country. Ganagana further explained that those who were claiming that the amnesty office owed them one year in backlog payments, were illegally deployed to various institutions for training without due process or the consent of the Coordinator. He said: “in March 2018 shortly after Dokubo resumed office, some Niger Delta people who were not captured in the Amnesty programme database were illegally deployed for training without the Coordinator’s authorisation.” “There were two categories of group of persons that were illegally deployed by a former official of the Amnesty programme within the period under review. “Some of them were captured in the database making them bona-fide beneficiaries of the programme while some were not captured. “But the Coordinator after some considerations decided to pay only the tuition fees of those ones who were not captured and have been given admission in various institutions for training. He said that the legal beneficiaries were entitle to tuition fees, books and in training allowances. “So, it is out of place for those who were illegally deployed for training to claim that they are being owed allowances.