WorldStage Newsonline– Royal Dutch Shell plc has confirmed that
it had been informed by the Dutch Public Prosecutor’s Office (DPP) that they
are nearing the conclusion of their investigation and are preparing to
prosecute it for criminal charges directly or indirectly related to the 2011
settlement of disputes over Oil Prospecting License 245 (OPL 245) in Nigeria. The Royal
Dutch Shell and Eni, Italian oil giant, along with a number of their senior
executives are involved in law suits for their alleged role in the deal. A recent
report jointly inaugurated by the Human and Environmental Development Agency,
Global Witness, RE: Common and The Corner House said the Federal Government of
Nigeria had lost an estimated $6 billion to the controversial Oil Prospecting
Licence (OPL) 245 deal. Resources for
Development Consulting, a research organisation focusing on oil and gas sector,
was appointed to carry out the analysis. Leaked
documents from Shell had suggested the oil giant capitalised on the 2011
presidential election to get the Federal Government to sign the deal. But Shell
and Eni have denied any wrongdoing, reiterating that they had acted correctly
in the purchase of OPL 245. Using a
discounted cash flow analysis model made up of elements including fiscal terms,
field data from various sources, an oil price assumption of $70 a barrel, the
Resources for Development Consulting projected that Nigeria lost an estimated
$4.5 billion based on 2003 fiscal terms on the deal. Projecting
further, they said the Federal Government lost N5.86 billion over the lifetime
of the project based on 2005 fiscal terms. At the
presentation, Don Hubert, founder and president of Resources for Development
Consulting, said the fiscal terms governing the OPL 245 deal only favoured
Shell and Eni. “The payment
of $1.1 billion in 2011 was not only a payment to secure rights to OPL 245, the
payment also served fiscal terms that were highly generous to the IOCs
(International Oil Companies) but were highly detrimental to the government of
Nigeria,” he said. He added: “The
lack of profit oil in the current fiscal terms that is governing OPL 245 will
result, our analysis shows, in a loss to the Nigerian people of at least $4.5
billion.” Barnaby Pace
from Global Witness said: “Today’s report shows how the terms of agreement was
in their favour… Globally there is call on the Nigerian government to revoke
the licence so that its estimated $6 billion losses will be stopped in its
track. We also call for contracts to be made public.” Olanrewaju
Suraj, chairman at HEDA said: “The crux of the concern elicited by the
controversial deal derives from the process of awarding the licence to ENI and
Shell. “The
multinationals included clauses depriving the Nigerian state of its rightful
share of oil production and by implication incurs monumental losses in revenues
that ought to accrue to the coffers of the country. “It is
estimated that with oil prices in the region of $70 per barrel, potential
revenues that were negotiated away could amount to $5.86 billion. “There is
therefore a need for Nigerian government to diligently pursue ongoing litigation
including taking necessary steps to enhance the prosecution of the cases
arising from the OPL 245 scam and to cancel this scandalous deal.” OPL has about
nine billion barrels of crude oil, estimated to worth half a trillion dollars. The sale of
the block, which is considered as one of the most lucrative on the continent,
has been replete with allegations and lawsuits.