WorldStage Newsonline– The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’adu
Abubakar lll has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari over his victory at
the February 23 Presidential Election in Nigeria. The spiritual leader of the Nigerian Muslims and
President-General of Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs(NSCIA) in a
statement signed on his behalf and the Nigerian Muslim community by the JNI’s
Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar-Aliyu, thanked God for a hitch-free
elections which led to the declaration of Buhari as winner. He urged losers of the polls to concede defeat and embrace
peace as according to to him, in every contest, there must be a winner and a
loser. He said, “We are grateful to Allah, the especially
beneficent and exceedingly merciful for the peaceful and successful conduct of
the 2019 Presidential and National Assembly Elections, as well as the subsequent
declaration of the winner. “Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) under the leadership of
His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar delightfully congratulates
President Muhammadu Buhari and all other contestants, as well as the Nigerian
electorates that conducted themselves peacefully and with high spirit of decorum  during and after the elections. “However, we call on all the political contenders in
Nigeria, to in the name Allah take it easy and sheath their swords, as in every
contest there will always be a winner and a loser. “But in this case, all the contestants are the winners,
because Nigerians are now beginning to understand the dynamics of politics and
democracy. “Moreover, Nigerians must be in peace with one another
before anybody will think of governing the entity called Nigeria, except if
he/she thinks otherwise, which in our view will tantamount to the state of
anarchy that must be avoided no matter the concerns. Peace must be embraced by
all, as Nigeria clearly needs peace for its growth and development.” The Sultan all cautioned politicians, stakeholders against
hate speech ahead of the March 9 Governorship and the State Houses of
Assembly  across the country. This was just as he appealed to security agencies to
maintain neutrality in the discharge of their duties before, during and after
the Governorhip and State Houses Assembly Elections. Abubakar also called on the Imams (clerics), Ulama(scholars)
and the entire Muslim Community  to
fervently pray for the peace and security of the land. He said, “And considering that the Gubernatorial and
State Houses of Assembly Elections are coming up on Saturday, 9th March, 2019,
we use this medium to appeal to all politicians and their supporters to embrace
peace and also be decorous in actions and speeches, before, during and after
the elections. “We must not fuel the embers of  hatred nor beat the drum of war amongst
ourselves, as elections will come and go, but the un-courteous utterances may
remain as a scare in our respective memories. “So restraint should be exercised, as this is a crucial
period for the evolutionary process of the Nigerian state, thus we must all be
seen to be statesmen, such that we will continue to be a force to be reckoned
with, in the comity of nations. “Therefore, JNI calls for calm and self-control in
words and actions by all concerned, and security agencies are implored to
redouble their efforts in the discharge of their constitutional responsibility
especially during the forthcoming gubernatorial elections.”