WorldStage NewsOnline—-The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday declared as “inconclusive”, outcome of the governorship elections in Bauchi, Plateau, Sokoto and Adamawa states. Prof. Mohammed Kyari, Returning Officer in Bauchi who made the declaration, said that apart from the cancellation of the result from entire Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area because of irregularities, the exercise in some other polling units also suffered the same fate. “The margin between the winner and opponent is less than the total number of votes cancelled in some polling units. “By law, since the margin of winner is less than the total number of votes cancelled and registered voters in the areas where the votes have been cancelled, this elections is hereby declared inconclusive,” he said. He said his decision was in line  with section 26 part 53 of the Electoral Act. While announcing the votes garnered by the two contending parties before declaring the outcome inconclusive, the Returnig Officer had given the scores of incumbent governor, Mohammed Abubakar of APC as 465,453 votes and that of Bala Mohammed of PDP as 469,512 votes. Kyari said that the Independent National Electoral Commission would conduct re- run election within 21 days in the affected Local Government area and polling unit which results had been cancelled before the final announcement of the winner. Prof. Richard Kimbir, the Returning Officer for the election in Plateau state confirmed the decision of INEC  in Jos, after collating results from the 17 local government areas of the state. Kimbir, who is the Vice Chancellor of Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, said the total number of votes cancelled more than the difference in the number of votes the the two major candidates got, “hence was constrained to declare the polls inclusive”. The returning officer said Mr Simon Lalong of the All Progressive Congress (APC) scored 583, 255 votes while his closest opponent, Lt. Gen. Jeremiah Useni (rtd) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) pulled 538, 326 votes in Saturday’s governorship elections. Kimbir said the total number of votes cancelled in the state is 49, 347, which is above the total difference of 44, 929 in the votes scored by the two major candidates. “In line with section 179, subsection two of the 1999 constitution as amended I am constrain to declare this election inclusive. “This is because the total number of cancelles votes is above the difference that exist in th votes pulled by the two major candidates. “So, in line with the electoral act, a supplementary elections will be conducted in the affected areas in 21 days, ” he declared. INEC in Sokoto state said the decision was because 75, 403 votes were cancelled which were higher than 3, 413 margin difference. The State’s Chief Returning Officer, Prof. Fatima Muktar, made the declaration on Sunday in Sokoto, stating that 51 Candidates contested the election. Muktar, who is the Vice Chancellor, Federal University Dutse (FUD) , Jigawa, declared that it was based on the consideration of cancelled votes that emanated from 136 polling units in the state. ” From the forgoing, the election is declared inconclusive as I cannot take a decision in recognition of the narrow margin according to electoral law” Muktar said. She added that the total registered voters were 1, 887, 767 while 1, 033, 081 voters were accredited. She said the total valid votes were 987, 952 and the total rejected votes were 30, 082 while the total votes cast were 1, 018, 024 at the concluded election. According to the results declared,Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has won the election in 12 out of the 23 LGAs results announced with 3,413 votes margins. Tambuwal polled 489, 558 votes while his close rival, Alhaji Ahmad Aliyu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) scored 486, 145 votes. According to her, the PDP has the higher votes in 12 LGAs while APC has 11 LGAs with a margin of 3, 413 votes difference between them. She said the figure of cancelled votes was 75, 403 at different polling units across the state due to various reasons. INEC in Adamawa  says the Governorship election is inconclusive and a new date for the rerun election would be announced. The Returning Officer .Prof. Andrew Haruna, confirmed the development at the governorship election collation centre in Yola on Monday. Haruna said the number of cancellations was higher than the margin of lead votes between the two contestants and therefore, a new date for the rerun election would be fixed. Haruna mentioned about 44 polling units affected across the state