WorldStage NewsOnline—-As part of efforts to ensure seamless supply of petroleum products across the country, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has strengthened partnership with the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN). A statement by the corporation’s spokesman, Mr Ndu Ughamadu in Abuja on sunday quoted the Group Managing Director, Maikanti Baru as saying this at the MOMAN’s Chief Executive Officers Strategy Retreat Dinner. He said the corporation, as the supplier of last resort, would continue to strengthen its relations with MOMAN to avoid any supply gap in the Downstream Sector. He appreciated MOMAN for being a dependable ally in the supply and distribution of petroleum products nationwide. Baru added that marketers were a force to be reckoned with in the Downstream Sector of the petroleum Industry. He added other players like the NNPC Retail Limited were in the business not to compete, but to complement the leadership role of MOMAN in the Downstream value chain. “We maintain good relations with MOMAN which have helped to ensure that there is products availability nationwide during the last Yuletide and the just concluded election period. “MOMAN is living up to our expectation as partners. NNPC is ready to escalate whatever recommendations the Association comes up with at the end of its retreat to appropriate authorities,” he said. The GMD said that the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), when finally passed, would further strengthen and boost the business operations of MOMAN across the country. He further noted that the MOMAN workshop was apt as it would galvanise the association to brace for the imminent reforms in the Oil and Gas Industry. He urged MOMAN to always keep its contractual obligations to the NNPC, adding that remittances from the Association to the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) to service the needs of the various tiers of government. In his remarks, MOMAN Chairman, Mr Tunji Oyebanji, promised that the association would continue to be a dependable ally in the supply and distribution of petroleum products business in the Country.