WorldStage Newsonline — Ahead of the Governorship and State House of Assembly elections slated for March 9 2019, Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt General Tukur Buratai, has warned that the Army will be tough on those planning to rig and disrupt election process. Speaking  in Abuja at a meeting with Principal Staff Officers Commanding Operational Commanders and Directors, the Army chief  said recent security threats showed that some politicians had planned to truncate the election. Buratai said: “There are indications of their intent to take advantage of and to use the farmers/herders crisis, armed political thugs and ethnic militias to perpetrate acts of violence including bombings. “Some of them also intend to infiltrate domestic staff of political opponents, employ mercenaries to carry out acts of assassinations, use the social media for smear campaigns, hate speeches and spread fake news in a bid to disrupt the peaceful conduct of the elections. We must not allow them succeed.” The Army Chief however reiterated and charged commanders not to take unlawful orders from my politicians no matter how highly placed that will jeopardize the apolitical stand of the Nigerian Army. “Once again let me reiterate my charge to you concerning this election: Commanders must be vigilant to ensure that cases of infiltrations to scare off voters are not allowed,” he said . “Hobnobbing and fraternization with politicians during this election period is totally prohibited, Commanders must ensure robust and extensive patrols are carried out to cover all flash points; enforce the no movement restrictions and carryout thorough searches of vehicles and persons.” Buratai also urged Commanders to deal decisively with any electoral crime or action such as electoral thuggery, snatching of ballot boxes, illegal possession of electoral materials and firearms as well as other crimes that could mar the smooth conduct of the election. According to him, “there must be no military escort for any politician or retired military personnel until after the elections. “Commanders must ensure that no retired military officer is allowed to use Service weapons hitherto authorised for their personal safety during the period of the election. “Commanders must ensure that troops remain on ground to counter and deal ruthlessly with any post-election violence; Commanders must work in conjunction with the police and other security agencies to dominate the environment to forestall any form of violence; Commanders must maintain force protect and respond decisively to prevent any surprise attack on troops of Operation SAFE CONDUCT and eligible voters by armed militia groups or political thugs.”