Lagos State governorship candidate of the All Progressives
Congress, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has reiterated that his government will be
people oriented, just as the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr.
Babatunde Fashola urged the Lagos electorates to vote for him and his Running
mate, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat in the Saturday March 9thgubernatorial election,
saying no one should trade experience for someone who is merely desperate to be
governor. Speaking during a live television interview programme on
Television Continental, where he, Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat were guests, Fashola,
who was the immediate past Governor of Lagos, noted that voting for the APC
candidate is to guarantee continuity of the great strides that Lagos has made
since 1999. According to the former Governor, the candidacy of Sanwo-Olu
and Hamzat is the best that can happen to Lagosians, as the two men are not
novices to the workings of government. “They are not only tested, but have also been part of
the process of development that Lagos has witnessed since 1999 till date. The former Governor said that Lagos cannot afford to
experiment at this point in the history of the State saying that the people had
gone beyond that stage where governance will be left in the hands of
inexperienced individual. ‘‘We have gone beyond
the stage of experimenting. This is not a State to experiment.’’ Imploring voters to cast their ballot for the APC, Fashola
said it is not that Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat are the most brilliant, but they have
what it takes to provide good governance by the virtue of the experiences they
have garnered over the years both in the private and public sectors. Therefore, Lagosians should not jeopardise their future by
allowing novices to take over”, Responding to questions by the viewers, Sanwo-Olu, while
assuring Lagosians that their needs are captured in his planned programme
tagged project “THEME”, noted that the manifesto was the products of
broad consultations the team embarked on during the campaign. “Our government is to serve the people. Not necessarily
from our own point of view alone, but also from what people want. We campaigned
vigorously throughout the state where huge consultations were made. We visited
all the local governments, interacting with many groups that included the
artisans, market men and women, traditional rulers, transport operators,
including every cultural and ethnic groups and many more. So, our programme of
action, apart from what we felt should be done were arrived at from these
interactions”, said the APC flag bearer. The Deputy Governorship Candidate, Dr.Obafemi Hamzat, said
technology will take the centre stage in their government. He specifically mentioned education, traffic management,
health, the economy and security as the sectors that technology will play
prominent roles. Besides, Hamzat emphasised the need to expand the state’s
tax base, noting that much money would be required to meet government’s
obligations to the people. “But the first step is for you our people to go out on
Saturday to vote for the APC. Its then we will be able to fulfil these
promises”, he stated.