WorldStage Newsonline– Hon Justice A.I Chikere of the
Federal High Court L, Abuja has declared the deportation of the 12 detainees
and 35 others from Nigeria to Cameroon on January 26, 2019 as illegal. In the cases of Mr Sisiku Ayuk Tabe & 11 Ors And The
National Security Adviser And Another (Suit No/Fhc/Abj/C5/85/2018) Wilfred
Tassang And 50 Others Vs Nsa And Another (Suit No Fhc/Abj/Cs/147/2018) before Hon
Justice A.I Chikere, it was argued that the applicants were arrested at Abuja
on January 9, 2018 on the instruction of the National Security Adviser,
Major-General Babagana Monguno. They were said to have been detained in an underground cell
at the headquarters of Directorate Intelligence Agency, Abuja. In a suit filed on their behalf by prominent human rights
lawyer, Mr. Femi Fakana SAN the applicants prayed for the following
declarations and orders: A declaration that the arrest of the applicants
without warrant of arrest is unconstitutional and contrary to section 34 &
35 of the 1999 Constitution as amended and article 5 & 6 of the African
Charter of Human and Peoples Rights (Ratification and Enforcement Act;     A declaration that the detention of the
applicants in an underground prison by the 1st Respondent was a violation of
their right to personal liberty; A declaration that the detention of the
applicants without access to their lawyers or family was a violation of their
right to fair hearing; A declaration that the arrest and detention of the
applicants was a violation of their right to freedom of assembly and
association; An order of the court ordering the immediate release of the applicants;
Pay the applicants the sum of 200 million naira each as compensation for the
damage and hardship which they suffered; An order of perpetual injunction
restraining any further violation of the rights of the applicants by the defendant
or any of its agencies. Delivering his ruling, Justice Chikere declared the arrest
and detention of the 12 applicants illegal as the federal government did not
controvert the affidavit of the applicants and awarded N5 million damages to
each of them. On the deportation of the 12 detainees and 35 others from
Nigeria to Cameroon on January 26, 2019 the presiding judge, Justice Chikere
dismissed the preliminary objection of the federal government as lacking in
merit. The judge agreed with the submission that the applicants
were expelled from in utter violation of the legal obligations under the
National Refugee Commission Act, section  
35 of the Constitution and article 12 of the African Charter on Human
and Peoples Rights which have prohibited Nigeria from expelling or deporting
refugees and asylum seekers from Nigeria. Consequently, Justice Chikere declared the deportation of
the applicants illegal and unconstitutional, awarded N200,000 to each of them
and ordered the federal government to ensure that they are brought back to
Nigeria forthwith. And granted an order of perpetual injunction restraining the
Respondents from further violating the fundamental rights of the Applicants in
any manner whatsoever and howsoever upon return to Nigeria. Even though the respondents did not file a counter
affidavit, they nonetheless, raised a preliminary objection hinged on the following
grounds of objection: The court lacked jurisdiction to entertain this matter;     That this case did not fall within Chapter
IV of the 1999 constitution as amended so cannot be commenced by way of
Fundamental Human Right enforcement proceeding; That the applicant failed to
file a competent affidavit to support their claim since the affidavit was not
deposed to by the applicant and the person who deposed to it failed to state
why the affidavit was not personally deposed to by the applicant.

In arguing the preliminary objection the
Respondents’s Counsel, Mr. D. Suleiman urged the Court to dismiss the case on
the ground that it was brought under the Fundamental Rights (Enforcement
Procedure) Rules 2009. But Mr. Falana countered by arguing that the arrest and
detention of the applicants who are refugees and asylum seekers constituted a
breach of section 35 of the Constitution and article 6 of the African Charter
on Human and Peoples Rights.