WorldStage NewsOnline—-Following his success at poll on February 23, President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday in Abuja assured Christian leaders in the country of his commitment to leave Nigeria better than he met it in 2015. The president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in a statement, said President Buhari gave the assurance when he received the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), led by Rev. Dr Samson Ayokunle, at the State House. The President affirmed that his administration would continue to address important national challenges, including security, economy and corruption. President Buhari also told the CAN leadership, who was at the State House to congratulate President Buhari on his re-election, that the outcome of the just-concluded polls underscores the trust Nigerians have in the present leadership in the country. He said: “We will continue to strive for peaceful co-existence among all Nigerians, irrespective of their religious beliefs. ‘‘In the area of allocation of political offices, our focus will be on merit and national spread, such that every part of Nigeria will have a sense of belonging. ‘‘We remain resolute in the fight against terrorism and insurgency, and efforts to bring back all those in captivity and other victims of kidnappings will be intensified.’’ While commending the important roles religious bodies had played in the last four years of the administration, President Buhari pledged to continue supporting several programmes anchored by the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC), geared towards peace, tolerance, unity and harmony in our country. In his congratulatory message, the CAN president prayed God to grant President Buhari ‘‘everything it takes to perform a hundred times better than his first term,’’ stressing that the organisation had the success of the administration at heart. Ayokunle welcomed the President’s pledge to run an inclusive government in a speech shortly after his re-election, noting that the gesture would give all in the country a sense of belonging.