WorldStage Newsonline– The All Progressives Congress (APC), South-West, on Wednesday congratulated Lagos State Governor-elect, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his Ogun counterpart, Mr Dapo Abiodun, for being victorious in the March 9 governorship election. The zonal chapter of the party also congratulated Lagos State Deputy Governor-elect, Dr Obafemi Hamzat; his Ogun State counterpart, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele, all Senators-elect and their House of Representatives counterparts in the region . The APC National Vice Chairman(South West), Mr Bankole Oluwajana, gave the congratulatory message in a statement in Lagos. Oluwajana said their emergence was a reflection of the confidence the people had in them and the party, and urged them to uphold the tenets and values of the progressives. He said the results of both the Feb. 23 and March 9 elections were particularly impressive for the APC in the region. Oluwajana said apart from Oyo State which the party was declared to have lost, the APC had a good showing in the governorship election. He, however, said that all hope was not lost in Oyo State, assuring that the party had the prospect of reclaiming its mandate at the election tribunal. The chieftain commended National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, and a former Chairman of the party, Chief Bisi Akande, for their contributions to the party’s performance in the elections. Oluwajana also praised the efforts of Gov. Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and other serving governors, ministers and federal lawmakers in the South West for the electoral fortune of the party in the region. Oluwajana also thanked a chieftain of the party, Chief Olusegun Osoba, and APC National Deputy Chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo, for their contributions to the party’s success. The party Vice -Chairman regretted the death of Mr Temitope Olatoye, a member of the House of Representatives on Monday. He said apart from the killing of the lawmaker and isolated cases of violence, the election was largely peaceful in the region. Oluwajana said the party would continue to do its best to meet the aspirations of people in the South West and Nigerians in general. NAN reports the APC, in the South West, won two states (Ogun and Lagos) in the governorship election while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was declared winner in Oyo State. The party also won all the three senatorial seats in Lagos State, Ogun and Ekiti State, while it won two in Osun and one in Ondo State. Also majority of the House of Representatives seats in the South West were won by the party.