WorldStage Newsonline– The Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 elections, Atiku Abubakar has described the judiciary as truly the defender of Nigeria’s democracy. Atiku Abubakar made the assertion while responding to the verdict of the Osun State Governorship Election Tribunal, which on Friday declared PDP candidate, Sen. Ademola Adeleke as winner of the Sept. 22 governorship election in Osun. Abubakar, in a statement issued by his Media Aide, Mr Paul Ibe on Friday in Abuja,  said that the judgment indicated that indeed the judiciary was the last refuge for the common man. The Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja had on Friday declared Adeleke winner. The three-member panel said during its ruling that the re-run election that held on Sept. 27, 2018, was illegal. The tribunal, therefore, deducted the votes scored by the APC candidate,  Gboyega Oyetola, in the rerun after declaring the re-run illegal. The tribunal said Adeleke won the election at the first ballot on Sept. 22 and the re-run that INEC devised to reach a final conclusion a week later was illegal. “The declaration of Oyetola is null and void,” the tribunal ruled in a majority decision with one member dissenting Abubakar added that it was also an indication that in truth, “those who are aggrieved and resolved to maintain the peace, have been vindicated.’’ He congratulated Adeleke, the PDP and men and women of goodwill in Osun, who according to him did not waver in their commitment to retrieve their mandate. “Weeping may endure for a night, but joy has come for the people of Osun,” he said. Abubakar also commended the courage of the judiciary and its resilience even in the face of strenuous efforts to undermine and intimidate it. According to the former Vice President, the decision of the judiciary on the Osun governorship election is phenomenal in view of the culture of inconclusive elections by INEC in this season. The judgment has rekindled hope and confidence that those whose mandate had been tampered with or denied could  look forward to justice being done to them. He urged the judiciary to remain steadfast as the eyes of all Nigerians and indeed the whole world were on them to help ensure that democracy in Nigeria was put on a solid foundation. PDP hails verdict The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has hailed the verdict of the Osun State Governorship Election Tribunal, which on Friday declared the party’s candidate, Sen. Ademola Adeleke as winner of the Sept. 22 , 2018 governorship election in Osun. A statement issued by PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan described the judgment as a victory for democracy and the will of the people. Ologbondiyan said that the judgment was a clear indicator that no matter how evil and injustice appeared to thrive, the truth must always prevail at the end of the day. “Nigerians have accepted democracy as a way of life and a form of government that suits the multi-plurality of our nation. “The spontaneous jubilation that greeted this judgment is therefore a direct indication that it is in consonant with the wishes and aspiration of Nigerians across the board. “For those who have been desperate to destroy our democracy, this judgment has proven to them that their shenanigans will always come to no avail,’’ Ologbondiyan said. He commended the judiciary for standing upright in the defence of democracy. “This verdict, which reverberates across our nation, points to the fact that the truth will always  prevail. “It is also an indication that our party, the PDP, will recover all our stolen mandates in the 2019 general elections, particularly, the Presidential mandate, which Nigerians freely gave to our candidate, Abubakar. “Furthermore, all our candidates who have already won their elections, but whose victories are being manipulated by anti-democratic forces, must take solace in the words of the Osun election petition panel. “The solace is that once valid votes have been declared and a winner emerges by majority of votes, a rerun is illegal.’’ He congratulated Adeleke, the people of Osun as well as all lovers of democracy across the country for the triumph of justice. Secondus congratulates Adeleke The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Uche Secondus, has congratulated the party’s Gubernatorial Candidate for Osun, Sen. Ademola Adeleke, for his victory at the election tribunal. Secondus, in a statement issued by his Media Aide, Mr Ike Abonyi, said that the judiciary should be hailed for standing up for the truth by declaring Adeleke winner of the Sept. 22, 2018 governorship elections in Osun. He said that the Osun Governorship Election Petition Tribunal, by its landmark ruling, had helped to restore hope to Nigerians that all stolen mandates shall be recovered and retuned intact to the rightful winners. Secondus commended the Judges for putting truth and justice ahead of any other matter in carrying out their professional responsibilities. Similarly, the Vice Presidential Candidate of the party in the Feb. 23 Presidential Election, Mr Peter Obi, hailed the tribunal for declaring Adeleke winner of the election. Obi said he had always believed that the Judiciary would save Nigeria’s democracy. “The ruling has shown that all hope is not lost about this country, as the judiciary continues to show really that it’s the last hope of the people,’’ Obi said. Judgment is victory for democracy – CUPP In the same vein, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) also described the judgment as victory for democracy and affirmation of the supremacy of the sanctity of the ballot. CUPP, in a statement issued by its Spokesperson, Ikenga Ugochinyere, said that the tribunal had given hope to Nigerians. “Today’s judgment has reinforced the hope of the opposition that there are still men and women on the bench who, even in the face of rampage to destroy the judiciary, can still stand firm and do the right thing.” Ugochinyere congratulated Adeleke on his victory at the tribunal. The Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja on Friday declared Adeleke winner. It upturned the Independent National Electoral Commission’s declaration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Mr Gboyega Oyetola, as winner of the election. The three-member panel said that the rerun election that held on Sept. 27, 2018, was illegal. The tribunal said Adeleke won the election at the first ballot on Sept. 22 and the rerun that INEC carried out to reach a final conclusion a week later was illegal. “The declaration of Oyetola is null and void,” the tribunal ruled in a majority decision with one member dissenting. APC has said it would appeal the judgment.