Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere Renewal
Group (ARG) has said that it would uncompromisingly continue to agitate for the
restructuring of Nigeria’s governance architecture. This stance was contained in the communique issued at
the end of the group’s 2019 retreat held in Ado Ekiti at the weekend.  The communique was read to journalists on
Sunday afternoon at the end of the retreat which started on Friday. According to the communique read by its National
Publicity Secretary, Mr Kunle Famoriyo, the group said it believes that
“all parts of the country stand to benefit from a properly restructured
Nigeria in spite of whatever fears are haboured by the different nationality
groups”. The group also called on all governments in the Southwest
to evolve policies that will promote Yoruba identity, values, orientation and
economic prosperity. “We demand that the acceptable Yoruba
socio-political leadership is one that protects the social welfare interests
and values of our people. We, therefore, look forward expectantly to
appropriate reforms in the leadership structure. It is trite that when
political leadership is wrong, beneficial socio-economic and infrastructural
policies are always the causalty”, the communique reads. While stating its readiness to provide a platform to
encourage greater political participation, the group called on all stakeholders
to begin an early advocacy on the implementation of the electoral and
legislative reforms before the next general elections. It equally advocated full implementation of
electronic voting and clean up of voters register. This, according to the group
must be done before the next general election. “ARG recognises the importance of the Yoruba
diaspora in the transfer of progressive knowledge and processes in their
countries of residence to Yoruba homelands. This critical demography can help
us achieve a lot of progress if they get involved in the political processes
right from their different bases, while also offering their technical expertise
towards improving the socio-political and economic landscape of the Yoruba
homelands,” ARG said.