WorldStage Newsonline– A special purpose vehicle owned by the Ecobank Group, O&O Networks Limited has said that there is no forfeiture of its Airtel shares order of the Federal High Court of Nigeria in its proceedings that is directed against Ecobank Transnational Incorporate (ETI) or Ecobank Nigeria Limited. O&O Networks Limited is defending long-standing proceedings in the Federal High Court relating to its ownership of shares in Airtel Networks Limited that were once owned by it. The company which is a special purpose vehicle previously owned by Oceanic Bank, formed part of Ecobank Transnational Incorporated’s (ETI) in 2011 after the acquisition of Oceanic Bank. Legal proceedings were first initiated against O&O Networks Ltd in December 2006 by Broad Communications Ltd (“plaintiff”), in the Federal High Court of Nigeria. A statement released by O&O Networks, pointed out that there is no forfeiture order of the Federal High Court of Nigeria in these proceedings that is directed against ETI or Ecobank Nigeria Limited. According to the statement, there have been no material legal developments in the plaintiff’s substantive claim for monetary compensation since 2017, though a trial date on the substantive merits was recently fixed for May 28, 2019. The statement reads: “Contrary to certain press reports, there is no forfeiture order of the Federal High Court of Nigeria in these proceedings that is directed against ETI or Ecobank Nigeria Limited, and neither ETI nor Ecobank Nigeria Limited has made or is required by law to make any payment to the Federal High Court of Nigeria in relation to this long-standing litigation. There have been no material legal developments in the plaintiff’s substantive claim for monetary compensation since 2017. “In 2006, the plaintiff’s claim was grounded  on an alleged right of first refusal over shares in Airtel Networks Limited that O&O Networks owned.  The plaintiff claimed ownership of the Airtel shares based on its right of first refusal. In 2017, the plaintiff amended its claim to seek monetary compensation of USD equivalent of Naira 10 billion (approximately US$28 million) in place of its claim of ownership of the Airtel share. ” Since the matter was filed in 2006, it has not proceeded to trial on the substantive merits of the claim to date though a trial date on the substantive merits was recently fixed for May 28, 2019 “In August 2018, O & O Networks sold its shares in Airtel Networks Limited for Naira 22.5 billion (approximately US$62.5 million) with the permission of the Federal High Court on 7 June 2018 and subsequently in September 2018, the plaintiff filed an interlocutory application requesting the Federal High Court of Nigeria to grant an order directing O&O Networks to place Naira 22.5 billion (approximately US$62 million) – the entire proceeds of the sale of the Airtel shares and an amount which is significantly in excess of the plaintiff’s total monetary claim – into an escrow account in the name of the Chief Registrar of the court, pending the final determination of the substantive claim.  The Federal High Court of Nigeria granted the plaintiff’s interlocutory application on 7 March, 2019. “O&O Networks has filed a notice of appeal and an application for stay of execution to this ruling. O&O Network’s appeal to the interlocutory order is currently pending, and it intends to prosecute the appeal vigorously. “O & O Networks Limited believes the substantive claim of the plaintiff is without merit and will continue to vigorously defend all proceedings – interlocutory and substantive – in relation to the plaintiff’s long-standing claim.” Earlier report claimed that the Federal High Court in Lagos had ruled that Bharti Airtel’s purchase of Airtel Nigeria shares from Ecobank in 2018 was contemptuous and amounted to a flagrant disobedience of a court order. The said shares have been the main issue in the protracted dispute between Dr. Oba Otudeko and O & O Networks Limited (a Special Purpose Vehicle owned by Ecobank Transnational Incorporated) and were indeed subject to an order of the court in 2015 that prohibited parties from transferring or selling the shares. However, in deliberate disregard of the order, Bharti Airtel purchased the shares from O & O and being previously aware of the dispute and court orders on these shares, extracted an indemnity from O & O against exposure to any liability. In the ruling, the Federal High Court also ordered O & O to pay the sum of N22.5Billion, being the proceeds of the wrongful sale of the shares into the Court’s account. It would be recalled that Dr. Oba Otudeko and Broad Communications Ltd, had instituted a legal action in 2006 challenging Delta State Government’s acquisition of O & O network’s shares in Airtel Networks (formerly Econet Wireless Nigeria). From the facts of the case, Broad Communication’s main contention is that the transaction was unlawful, and a breach of the Shareholders’ Agreement executed by the shareholders of Airtel Networks. According to the said Shareholder’s Agreement, the shares should have been offered to the existing shareholders first, before they were sold to Delta State Government given the right of “First Refusal” (pre-emptive right). Following the institution of the suit, O & O Networks purportedly bought back the disputed shares from Delta State Government. Beneficial ownership of the Airtel shares was subsequently transferred to Oceanic Bank, which is now owned by Ecobank Transnational Incorporated. In 2015, following the receipt of information that the disputed shares were being offered for sale, Broad Communications published a “Buyer Beware” notice on the disputed shares. In February 2015, Justice Tsoho of the Federal High Court, Lagos also gave an order in favour of Broad Communications restraining all parties from dealing or tampering with the shares in the custody of Ecobank. The recent ruling seeks to return parties to the status quo and underscores the sanctity of court orders which must be obeyed. Indeed, the judge in her ruling stated that “no matter how stupid the order of court is, it must be obeyed until set aside by the court or a superior court…” The trial now stands adjourned to the 28th of May, 2019.