WorldStage Newsonline– A Group, Human Rights Writers
Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has condemned the sudden intensified
harassment, arrests, detention and the media persecution of family members of
the leading opposition presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party
(PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. HURIWA condemned the EFCC for looking the other way whilst
the national leader of All Progressives Congress Bola Ahmed Tinubu was
reportedly “seen telling the media that he could carry his cash anyhow he wants
it and give them to whomsoever he wants.” The Rights group wondered how the EFCC did not arrest the
two bullion vans that allegedly conveyed huge cash hauls to the Lagos home of
Ahed Bola Tinubu. The  group further
queried the EFCC for refusing to stop the airlifting of huge cash reportedly to
Kwara State just before the Presidential and National Assembly’s Elections
which was widely reported by credible media channels. The Rights group also noted the Lagos based lawyer Mr. Olisa
Agbakaoba  waging a relentless media
campaign against the decision of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to challenge his alleged
rigging in the last presidential poll in the court of law. “Olisa Agbakaoba is an annoying interloper and a busy
body who should just shut up and do other things than becoming actively engaged
in what appeared like commercial media interventions to dissuade Atiku Abubakar
from going to court to retrieve his alleged stolen mandate,” it said. HURIWA wondered why such a high profile lawyer would be at
the fore front of those deploying media publications to demonize the opposition
politician only because he had decided to seek redress in the court of
competent jurisdiction which is allowed constitutionally. Besides, HURIWA condemned the motley of hired goons
including commercial clerics and some amorphous ethno – many religious
contraptions who may have been hired by president Muhammadu Buhari or his
associates to demonize and criminalize the lawful decision of Atiku Abubakar to
challenge his reported electoral defeat in court. The Rights group specifically asked the international
community who were deceived into hastily and erroneously endorsed the
controversial outcomes of the violent 2019 presidential polls that led to the
killings of 50 Nigerians and the violent rape of even electoral officials, to
demand that Nigerian government stopped deploying the politically tainted
anti-graft body to witch-hunt the opposition leader. HURIWA stated that for nearly a year, the acting chairman of
EFCC Alhaji Ibrahim Mustapha Magu had demonstrated that he was politically
affiliated to the man who gave him the job of a life time when he publicly wore
and displayed the campaign shirt’s badge of Muhammadu Buhari of the All
Progressives Congress (APC) which the media captured in pictures during the
public unveiling by Buhari of the multibillion mega office complex of EFCC in
Abuja. “We called for the removal of Magu who is more or less a
card carrying member of APC or a die-hard sympathizer or supporter of the then
presidential candidate and incumbent president Muhammadu Buhari, but the
National Assembly that could have chased him out was destabilized by the
presidency which hired some senators to stage internal mutiny and attempts to
unseat the leadership including the armed invasions and robbing of the Senate
mace and escaping through the Presidential villa’s gate,” it said. “The renewed attack of the EFCC targeting lawyers, family
members or political associates of Atiku to blackmail him into withdrawing his
threat to go to court to challenge the results of the presidential poll is
illegal, unconstitutional, despicable, reprehensible and a desperate attempt to
use the means of force and blackmail over a political opponent. This is
absolutely condemned. “We hereby call on European Union, the prime minister of
Britain and the president of the United States of America to ask the president
to stop using EFCC and security forces to intimidate, harass, and brutalize family
members and political associates of the PDP’s presidential candidate and
erstwhile Vice President Atiku Abubakar.” The EFCC, had on Saturday arrested Atiku’s son-in-law and
family’s financial adviser, Babalele Abdullahi. Reacting to the arrest, Abubakar said his family and
associates were paying the price of supporting him. In a tweet, the former Vice President urged those allegedly
persecuting his family members and associates to remember that government was
meant to pursue peace and justice. “My son in law and lawyer have been detained, one for three
weeks and the other recently.

“They are paying the price for supporting me. I
urge those now persecuting them to remember that a government’s mandate is to
pursue peace and justice for all, and not just those who support them.”