WorldStage Newsonline — The Nigeria Armed Forces and the Police command on Thursday said  a total of 1,119 suspect political thugs were arrested during  the 2019 general elections. Speaking at a joint Media briefing by spokesperson of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and the Nigeria Police about the insecurity that marred the elections, the Armed forces said it was in possession of video footage circulating in the social media to aid the investigation of military personnel involved  in inappropriate conducts, particularly the alleged encroachment on INEC collation centre in Rivers State by some soldiers. The Nigeria Police, Public  Relations Officer, Mr Frank Mba, said 796 suspects were arrested during the gubernatorial and state house of assembly election, and 323 arrested during the Presidential and National Assembly election. According to him, Akwa Ibom  State had the highest number of suspects with 256, Imo state was next with 117 arrested suspects and 109 suspecta were arrested in Kaduna state. He said the suspects include those transferred to the police by the Armed forces and that they were all being interrgoated. He said: “We are however, equally aware of some of the unfortunate security challenges witnessed during the elections which have generated public outcry and condemnation. The alleged involvement of some security agents in some of these unfortunate incidents is of serious concern to the military and police high commands.” He said to ensure transparency and accountability in the conduct of Nigerian Army (NA) personnel deployed for election security duties during the elections, the NA set up a 9-member investigative committee comprising senior military officers, headed by Major General Tari-Timiye Gagariga to investigate all allegations of misconduct against NA personnel during the elections. Mba said, “The committees Terms of Reference include thorough investigation of the reported activities, actions and inactions of personnel of the NA in all the states that contravene extant Rules of Engagement and Code of Conduct in internal security operations duties during election. It is also to investigate all reported infractions or violations against security agencies, particularly the NA.” Spokesperson of the Defence Headquarters, Colonel Onyema Nwachuku said there was no loggerhead between the military and the police, adding that both security agencies were working in synergy to guarantee peaceful and secure environment for all law abiding Nigerians to exercise their civic right of voting. He however said, the military will remain neutral in election and during the forth coming supplementary elections “We are mindful of the fact of the role of the armed forces of Nigeria,” he said.