The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF),
the leading African philanthropy committed to empowering African entrepreneurs,
will announce the selected applicants for the 2019 cohort of the Foundation’s
flagship Entrepreneurship Programme on March 22, 2019. The event, which marks
the 5th round of the Foundation’s Entrepreneurship Programme, will take place
at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. Every year, the Tony Elumelu
Foundation opens its application portal to African entrepreneurs, with
businesses of less than three years old. Through its $100million
Entrepreneurship Programme, the Foundation empowers 1,000 entrepreneurs
annually, who receive $5,000 in non-refundable seed capital, access to mentors,
a 12-week training programme and opportunities to promote their businesses to a
global audience. All applicants receive access to TEFConnect, Africa’s digital
entrepreneurial hub, which provides access to networks, training, further
capital sources and business opportunities. As a means of cascading its proven
entrepreneurial tool kit to the huge numbers of applicants, the Foundation
launched in 2018, TEFConnect, the digital networking platform for African
entrepreneurs. The platform, which has currently over 400,000 users, providing
opportunities for entrepreneurs to network, receive training and forge business
partnerships to scale their businesses beyond physical borders. In the five years since the
Foundation launched its Entrepreneurship Programme, it has empowered 4,000
African entrepreneurs directly and an additional 470 entrepreneurs supported by
the Foundation’s partners. The Foundation recently appointed Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu
as CEO effective from April 1. Mrs. Ugochukwu succeeds Parminder Vir, OBE, who
will continue to lend her experience and expertise as a member of the
Foundation’s Advisory Board. The incoming CEO, Ifeyinwa
Ugochukwu, emphasised the importance of partnership in reaching additional
entrepreneurs beyond the Foundation’s annual commitment of 1,000 entrepreneurs. “Each year we see a significant uplift in
applicants. Our execution partner, Accenture Development Partnerships, are
currently reviewing and finalising the applications. Over 215,000 African
entrepreneurs applied from across 54 African countries, up from 151,000
applications last year, with an increase in female representation from 62,000
in 2018 to 90,000 in 2019. These rising figures demonstrate the burning desire
of the African entrepreneur to develop our continent, and we must urgently
convert this passion into viable businesses to develop our continent. Our Programme has developed a
robust mechanism for directing capital effectively and efficiently, to those
who can deploy it in local communities with the greatest impact. We are looking
forward to working with partners to collaborate with us, to scale the platform
and process we have created. Empowering African entrepreneurs must be a shared
responsibility to create economic prosperity for all”, she said. Speaking on the Entrepreneurship
Programme, Osato Noah, West Africa Lead, Accenture Development Partnerships,
said: “We have worked with the Tony
Elumelu Foundation since the inception of the Entrepreneurship Programme. In
2015, the first round of the Programme saw us review 20,000 applications for
the Foundation and this year we reviewed over 215,000 applications. The sheer
diversity and speed at which applications have scaled in the last four years
have been incredible. We commend the Tony Elumelu Foundation for their
commitment to the transparency of the programme, and Accenture is proud to
partner in the delivery of this Pan-African project.”

The Selection Announcement will also feature a
Nigerian TEF Alumni Meet up, as well as an interactive dialogue with TEF
Founder, Tony O. Elumelu, CON.