The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has stated that one of the reasons behind the organisation of the annual essay competitions as part of the activities to commemorate the 2019 World Maritime Day is to encourage youth participation in the maritime sector. The Director General of the Agency, Dr Dakuku Peterside made this known in a statement at the Agency’s headquarters in Lagos. Dr Peterside who described the youth as the future of the sector said that NIMASA would continue to do all it can to encourage them to pursue careers and investment opportunities in the maritime industry after graduation. He noted that “this is the third edition of the annual competition specifically designed for students in Nigerian tertiary institutions in order to stimulate research and scholarship to build their knowledge and appreciation of the maritime industry”. The Director General who is also the Chairman of the African Association of Maritime Administrations (AAMA) observed that massive investment in the maritime industry will help to create employment, diversify the nation’s economy and provide additional sources of income beyond crude oil and its derivatives. Speaking about the topic and prizes for the winners of the essay competition, Dr Peterside said that this year’s topic for the essay competition is “Empowering Women in the Maritime Community” in line with the theme of the 2019 World Maritime Day celebration. He added that the winner would go home with 500,000 naira educational grant and a laptop while the winning essay would be published in the NIMASA magazine, The Voyage. He further disclosed that the 1st and 2nd runners up would get educational grants worth 350,000 and 250,000 naira respectively as well as laptops while consolation prizes of 100,000 naira would be given as educational grants to seven other runners up. It will be recalled that during the last three years, NIMASA has organised this essay competition as part of the activities to celebrate the world maritime day. In line with the already published guidelines of the essay competition, only first and second year students of Nigerian tertiary institutions are eligible to participate in the competition. The essay of not less than 1,200 words must be forwarded to wmdessay@nimasa.gov.ng and mail@samuelson.com.ng on or before September 12, 2019.