Mr Eteng Jonas-Williams, Speaker of the Cross River House of Assembly, has called on Nigerians to use dialogue in resolving conflicts. Jonas-Williams made the call on Saturday in Calabar during the 2019 World Peace Day celebration organised by the Positive Livelihood Award Centre (POLAC) Foundation. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the theme for the 2019 World Peace Day is ‘Climate Action for Peace’. The speaker said that recorded cases of disagreement between parties in period of crisis had adversely affected the socio-economic growth of the society. He said that negotiations through appropriate dialogue were capable of settling disputes and maintaining peace in the society. “Dialogue remains the best way of resolving conflict between aggrieved parties. As we mark the day, I urge us to be ambassadors of peace, starting from our immediate families to the society at large,” he said. The State Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) Mr Mohammed Durumin-Iya, said that the corps has the Alternative Dispute Resolution unit for settling disputes. Durumin-Ayi, who was represented by the Public Relations Officer of the Command, Mr Solomon Eremi, enjoined communities in the state to imbibe peaceful measures in their activities. He said that the corps would continue to advocate for peace among warring communities in the state with a view to avert crisis. Prof. Ani Nkang, the Vice Chancellor of Arthur Jarvis University, who gave a lecture on the theme, called on government at all levels to identify climate change as an area for research and funding. Nkang lamented that not much was done by relevant government agencies in creating public awareness on climate change. He advised the managers of forestry commissions across the country to set up Anti-Deforestation Unit to curb the felling of trees. Highlight of the event was the investiture of peace advocates to Mr Ojong Agbor, a stalwart of the People Democratic Party in the state, Dr Blessing Anam and others. POLAC was established as an International autonomous institution in 2001 with the United Nations and UNESCO, following the General Assembly resolution, declaring 2001-2010 as a decade of peace and non-violence.