The Nigerian Financial
Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has found it necessary to issue this second press
release on the leaked letter asking for information on certain categories of
public officers. This is to reaffirm the earlier press release made on Friday,
13th September, 2019. We have noticed that while some individuals who seem to be favourable to
Government are creating the wrong impression that the opposition is using the
NFIU, those in the Opposition seem to be speaking through some Non-Governmental
Organisations (NGOs) and insinuating that Government is using the NFIU to its
political advantage. Both positions are not only untrue but patently
unimaginable. It has become necessary that the
officer who initiated the request was obviously unacquainted with the fact that
the NFIU already had access to such information through its data base. It is also pertinent to note that
the NFIU has the major responsibility, in accordance with global standards, to
maintain and regularly update the list of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs).
It will be recalled that a new government was inaugurated in May 2019. The
officer who initiated the unauthorized letter was also taking the initiative to
update the PEPs list. The list includes politicians and political appointees in
all organs of government. The update exercise which is a regular practice in
order to protect public funds and other assets is also in accordance with
global best practice. For the avoidance of doubt, Their
Excellencies, The Senate President, The Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and the Chief Justice of the Federation, as well as Senators,
Members of the House of Representatives, Justices and other members of the
judiciary are NOT under investigation by the NFIU. We appeal to members of the
public that it is needless to make political capital out of this as the entire
country is just one co-signatory with other 164 members of the FIU process.



Having been aware that the leaked letter was not
subjected to the appropriate level of authorization before transmission, the
NFIU has commenced investigation to unravel the persons and factors that led to
the inadvertent circumvention of our internal process in this isolated case
with a view to applying appropriate sanctions as deterrence.