(Reuters/NAN) Arsenal striking duo Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette scored as their side roared back from two goals down to draw 2-2 at home to rivals Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday. It was a thrilling north London derby in the English Premier League (EPL) but it was the away team who drew first blood. Tottenham’s Christian Eriksen nudged the ball into an empty net on the rebound to give the visitors an early lead. The goal came after a superb piece of hold-up play from Son Heung-min allowed Erik Lamela to fire at goalkeeper Bernd Leno. Arsenal had most of the ball but Spurs were far more threatening on the break and Leno was forced to keep out stinging efforts from Kane and Eriksen. Tottenham were then awarded a penalty kick for a clumsy foul by Granit Xhaka on Son. Kane scored it from the spot in the 40th minute to put Spurs on track for a first league win on enemy territory in nine years. However, Lacazette halved the deficit right before half-time with an emphatic strike after an exquisite pass from Nicolas Pepe. Kane came close to sealing the points for Tottenham when he struck the post but Arsenal became galvanised when Spanish midfielder Dani Ceballos came off the bench. He smashed a shot which goalkeeper Hugo Lloris did well to tip over. An equaliser looked ever likelier and duly arrived when Gabon striker Aubameyang prodded a lofted pass from Matteo Guendouzi into the net in the 71st minute. It was his third goal in four Premier League games this season. Arsenal’s Sokratis Papastathopoulos had a goal ruled out for offside while Tottenham’s Moussa Sissoko spurned a last-gasp chance in a thrilling finale by blasting over the bar. Arsenal have seven points while Spurs are on five from four games each. BALE SEES RED AFTER BRACE AS REAL DRAW AT VILLARREAL Gareth Bale twice came to Real Madrid’s rescue to salvage a 2-2 draw at Villarreal in La Liga on Sunday The Wales forward however ended the night in despair as he was sent off in added time for receiving two yellow cards. Real were severely weakened by six injuries to attacking players and fell behind in the 11th minute. This was after captain Sergio Ramos lost the ball in his own half and Villarreal broke quickly, with Gerard Moreno scoring on the rebound. Bale equalised in stoppage time of the first half by tapping in a cross from Dani Carvajal from close range. But Villarreal restored their lead in the 74th minute through Moi Gomez, after Karim Benzema had a goal ruled out for offside. Bale has a long and successful record playing at Villarreal. He scored there on his Real debut in 2013 after completing his 100 million-euro move from Tottenham Hotspur and netted in a 3-2 win in 2017 and a 2-2 draw in 2018. He again pulled Madrid out of trouble with a powerful low strike in the 88th minute but somehow contrived to get himself sent off by earning two yellow cards for fouls in stoppage time. Real have picked up five points from their opening three games, one more than champions Barcelona, but Zinedine Zidane’s side are four points behind leaders Atletico Madrid, who have won all three matches. Zidane criticised his side for their lacklustre start but was pleased with how they reacted to going behind. “We began the game without any intensity, we were barely in the game for the first 15 minutes, it’s always important to make a strong start,” he told a news conference. “But we reacted well and we deserved to score more goals. “We were up against a good opponent and we have to improve in defence because we know what we are capable of in attack. “But I’m focusing on the positive things we did today, above all our reaction, because it was very important that we didn’t lose today.” IWOBI SCORES IN FIRST LEAGUE START FOR EVERTON Super Eagles’ midfielder Alex Iwobi on Sunday scored in his first English Premier League (EPL) start for Everton in a Match day four fixture at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers. Brazil forward, Richarlison Andrade, scored twice and Alex Iwobi netted his first league goal to hand Everton a 3-2 win over the visitors in an electrifying EPL encounter at Goodison Park. Wolves gifted the home side the opening goal in the fifth minute, a defensive mix-up between defender Conor Coady and goalkeeper Rui Patricio presenting the ball to Richarlison, who thumped a bouncing shot into the net. Everton were equally generous four minutes later as Adama Traore sent a low ball into the box and defender Seamus Coleman stopped it in front of the goal, teeing it up for Romain Saiss to poke home the equaliser. Iwobi put his side ahead again three minutes later, rising to send Gylfi Sigursson’s header flying past Patricio. Having successfully qualified for the group stages of the Europa League on Thursday by completing a 5-3 aggregate win over Torino, Wolves looked to be running out of steam in the second half. This was until Raul Jimenez stooped to head home a flick-on from a long throw to put them level again. Richarlison secured all three points for the home side in the 80th minute, out-jumping Willy Boly to give his side the lead for the third time. Boly was sent off in stoppage time after receiving a second yellow card for a foul on Richarlison as Everton hung on to win, and Wolves coach Nuno Espirito Santos expressed his disappointment with his rearguard. “We should defend better and we must do that. We played on Thursday night which was high on emotions, we recovered and settled down but coming to Goodison Park is always tough. “The Premier League has high standards,” he told Sky Sports. With Everton moving up into sixth place in the table ahead of the North London derby between Arsenal and Tottenham later on Sunday, Everton boss Marco Silva praised his side’s resilience. “It was a good competitive match and we deserved the three points. “We started well and I didn’t like the way we conceded, but we always showed a fantastic reaction,” he said.