No fewer than 500 patients would benefit from a week-long free multi-million naira medical and surgical interventions funded by the Kwara State Government which begin on Monday at the Ilorin General Hospital in the state capital. The mass public-funded surgical interventions are a first in the history of the state. The interventions, which involve procedures such as cataract, glaucoma, hernia, and neurosurgery, among others, are in partnership with the Kwara State Association of Nigeria USA, Sakinah Medical Outreach, and the Kwara State chapter of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA). Slated to hold between 23rd and 27th 2September, the surgical interventions are a follow up to the statewide medical mission during which doctors attended to over 2500 patients suffering from various ailments and offered medical advice and the ongoing medical screenings across most of the general hospitals in the state. “These interventions are a part of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq’s agenda to ensure good healthcare for the people. The Governor had graciously released the sums of N26.9m for the interventions, covering the medical missions conducted across the state a few weeks ago and the cost of purchasing the equipment to prepare the hospital for these procedures in line with global best practices,” Prof. Wale Sulaiman, Special Adviser to the Governor on Health Matters, said in a statement on Sunday. “The exercise is in partnership with the KSANG, Sekinah and the Kwara State chapter of the NMA which brought US and Nigeria-based medical experts for the mission.” Prof. Sulaiman said the patients for the surgery had been generated from the medical missions to the three senatorial districts. The surgeries come a week after the administration held some preliminary Hepatitis and anti-polio Campaign in Lafiagi ahead of a full-blown statewide effort to stamp out hepatitis following fears that the virus is fast spreading in the state. The first leg of the campaign was held at the College of Education (CoE) Lafiagi, while similar exercise would hold at the CoE, Oro, and another one at the Kwara State Polytechnic Ilorin.