LIVERPOOL WIN AT BURNLEY Premier League leaders Liverpool set a new club record of 13 straight top flight wins with a 3-0 victory at Burnley on Saturday, maintaining their two-point advantage over champions Manchester City. After Burnley started brightly, with forward Chris Wood forcing an early save out of Adrian, Liverpool got ahead in the 33rd minute, albeit in fortunate fashion. Trent Alexander-Arnold’s attempted cross from deep on the right hit the back of Wood and looped over Burnley keeper Nick Pope into the far corner. If Sean Dyche’s side felt luck was against them with the opener they had only themselves to blame when they handed Liverpool a second goal four minutes later. Burnley skipper Ben Mee passed straight to Roberto Firmino, who burst forward and then slipped the ball left to Sadio Mane, who finished with precision into the bottom corner. Firmino wrapped up the win nine minutes from the end, driving past Pope after good work from Mohamed Salah, who skipped past two challenges before setting up the Brazilian. The club’s previous record run was set between April and October 1990, when the team was managed by Kenny Dalglish. MANCHESTER UNITED HELD TO 1-1 DRAW BY 10-MAN SAINTS Manchester United’s patchy start to the Premier League season continued with a 1-1 draw at 10-man Southampton after a Jannik Vestergaard header cancelled out a brilliant Daniel James goal for the visitors on Saturday. The result left United on five points from four games after last weekend’s shock 2-1 home defeat by Crystal Palace while Southampton, who stretched their winless league streak at home against United to nine games, have four points. United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer conceded his team lacked the killer instinct in the opposition half but showed no signs of frustration after a third successive lacklustre performance following the opening 4-0 home win over Chelsea.“We started well, got the game where we wanted it and that’s where you have to score the second and the third and finish it off,” Solskjaer told BT Sport. “We weren’t clinical enough. We had loads of chances, and the last bit is missing. It’s getting there though. “The three other games that we haven’t won, we played better than against Chelsea. “We are dominating and creating chances but haven’t been clinical enough in front of goal to win games. We have missed penalties, chances – it’s a dip in results but not in form.” Wales winger James, signed from Swansea City during the close season, netted the third goal of his fledgling United career when he beat Angus Gunn with a 10th-minute rocket into the top corner which gave the Saints keeper no chance. It was almost a carbon copy of his goal against Palace and with the visitors dominating the opening half, the 21-year-old forced a reflex save from Gunn with another piledriver from 20 metres midway through the first half. That effort came after striker Marcus Rashford, who endured another forgettable afternoon, headed well wide of the near post from close range. United faded after the break and Vestergaard equalised in the 58th minute when he rose above Victor Lindelof to head home emphatically a Kevin Danso cross from the right, moments after visiting keeper David De Gea tipped away a Danny Ings header. The home side were forced to hang on in the closing stages after Danso was sent off in the 73rd minute for a second bookable foul when he hacked down Scott McTominay, with Gunn denying Rashford and substitute Mason Greenwood. United left back Ashley Young acknowledged it was a poor result for the winners of a record 20 English league titles, who have won only one of their last nine league games. “I think it’s two points dropped, even before they went down to 10 men we felt comfortable,” Young told BBC Sport. “We didn’t come down here to draw, we came to win. The chances are there, we just need to take them.” CHELSEA DRAW 2-2 WITH SHEFFIELD UNITED Chelsea threw away a two-goal lead to draw 2-2 with newly promoted Sheffield United on Saturday, leaving manager Frank Lampard still looking for his first home win. Chelsea striker Tammy Abraham got his name on the score-sheet at Stamford Bridge for the first time with two first-half goals. Abraham, one of several players from Chelsea’s youth academy given a chance by Lampard, slotted home in the 19th minute when Sheffield keeper Dean Henderson failed to gather the ball under pressure from Christian Pulisic. Abraham doubled Chelsea’s lead in the 43rd minute when he capitalised on a defensive mix-up. But the visitors pulled a goal back immediately after half-time when Callum Robinson converted a cross from Enda Stevens and equalised in the 89th minute when Chelsea defender Kurt Zouma netted past Kepa Arrizabalaga. BAYERN CRUSH VISITORS MAINZ 05 6-1 Bayern Munich scored six times in a span of 45 minutes to come from a goal down and crush visitors Mainz 05 6-1 on Saturday. The result saw Bayern climb to seven points from three games, two off the top. Benjamin Pavard’s fine volley in the 36th minute cancelled out Mainz’s lead through a Jean-Paul Boetius header and launched Bayern’s sustained attack. A sensational David Alaba free kick on the stroke of halftime turned the game around before Ivan Perisic gave Bayern a two-goal cushion with a header at the far post in the 54th minute. Kingsley Coman stabbed in their fourth 10 minutes later and league top scorer Robert Lewandowski also got onto the scoresheet, firing in his sixth goal in three league matches in the 78th. Substitute Alphonso Davies completed the rout two minutes later. RB Leipzig are top on nine points after their 3-1 win at Borussia Moenchengladbach on Friday. Borussia Dortmund on six points, are in action at Union Berlin later on Saturday. MAN CITY HIT FOUR IN WIN OVER BRIGHTON A double from Sergio Aguero on Saturday, steered Manchester City to a comprehensive 4-0 home win over Brighton & Hove Albion in the English Premier League. A first of the season for Kevin De Bruyne and another from Bernardo Silva completed the four goal rout over the visitors at the Etihad Stadium. City wasted no time in getting themselves in front as De Bruyne fired home after 68 seconds, and City’s 17th win in their last 18 league matches never looked in doubt. There was a worrying sight for City as Aymeric Laporte was carried off on a stretcher after upending Brighton’s Adam Webster and coming off worse, but there was better news to come, as Aguero finished well to make it 2-0 in the 42nd minute. Brighton had good chances to get themselves back in it either side of the interval, but they were made to pay for their profligacy in ruthless fashion by Aguero, who rifled into the top corner ten minutes into the second half. Seconds after coming off the bench, Bernardo Silva then rounded off the scoring with City’s 14th goal of the season, on the end of a pass from Aguero. City coasted to a victory that moves them back to the top of the standings, with Liverpool in action later on Saturday. “If we analyse the result it was 4-0 but few teams come here to play with this courage like Brighton,” City manager Pep Guardiola said. “Our players up front are incredibly good and they make the difference. Sergio will die scoring goals.” In their final match before the first international break of the season, City immediately clicked into gear with David Silva registering his 86th Premier League assist with a perfect pull back for De Bruyne. Brighton could not contain City as De Bruyne then fired inches wide, before David Silva should have scored from close range. With City momentarily looking a little ragged after Laporte’s withdrawal, another fine, flowing move culminated in De Bruyne laying the ball across for Aguero, who took a touch out of his feet before doubling their advantage. Brighton almost immediately struck back, but Ederson raced from his line to make a fine save to deny Leandro Trossard. Normal service was resumed in the second half as David Silva again turned provider for Aguero’s sixth goal this season. David Silva was replaced by Bernardo Silva, whose immediate involvement was to ride a challenge and fire into the bottom corner as City strolled to another three points. “The boys were full of courage, brave, the effort was there,” Brighton manager Graham Potter said. “They just lacked that clinical finishing in the final third.” BARCA HELD TO SURPRISE DRAW AT OSASUNA Sixteen-year-old Ansu Fati became Barcelona’s youngest ever La Liga goalscorer on Saturday but could not prevent his side stumbling to a surprise 2-2 draw at promoted Osasuna. The result left the champions with only four points after three games. Roberto Torres’ thumping volley gave Osasuna the lead in the seventh minute to send the boisterous El Sadar crowd into a frenzy. Barca struggled to cope with the home side in a first half in which they failed to have a single shot at goal. Coach Ernesto Valverde turned to Fati at the start of the second period and the teenager needed only six minutes to get off the mark, rising to head home a cross from fellow academy graduate Carles Perez. Barca took the lead in the 64th minute through a superb strike into the bottom corner from Arthur Melo. However, Osasuna were given a way back when Gerard Pique handled in the area and Torres made no mistake from the spot to equalise in the 81st minute. NDIDI RETURNS FOR LEICESTER, IHEANACHO, BALOGUN MISSIN Super Eagles midfielder Wilfred Ndidi returned to the starting line-up for Leicester City who defeated Bournemouth 3-1 in their Premier League clash at the King Power Stadium on Saturday Ndidi, who missed the Foxes last league game against Sheffield United due to injury. featured for 90 minutes in the game. It was Ndidi’s third league appearance for Leicester City this season and he has scored once. His international teammate, Kelechi Iheanacho was not listed for the game by the hosts. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Iheanacho has now been left out of the matchday squad by the Foxes for their last three games in all competitions. Leicester City striker Jamie Vardy was involved in all three goals as Brendan Rodgers’ side beat Bournemouth 3-1 in an end-to-end contest at the King Power Stadium. Leicester, who were industrious both on and off the ball against the visitors, move provisionally up to third in the table with eight points after four games. “We were worthy winners I felt,” Rodgers said. “I’m so, so proud of them. They gave so much against a very good side. “Vardy is a top-class striker. From the day I walked though the door he’s been amazing. It was a difficult (first) goal today… on the bounce, his connection and finish.” Isaac Success featured as a substitute in Watford 1-1 away draw against Newcastle United. Success replaced the Hornets goal scorer in the game, Will Hughes in the 71st minute. The other Nigerian at the club, Tom Dele-Bashiru failed to make the matchday squad for Watford in the encounter. At the Etihad Stadium, Leon Balogun was left out of the matchday squad for the fourth consecutive game as his club, Brighton&Hove Albion lost 4-0 to Manchester City. In other fixtures, West Ham United defeated Norwich City 2-0 at the London Stadium, while Crystal Palace edged 10-man Aston Villa 1-0 at the Selhurst Park.