WorldStage NewsOnline— The Federal Government has urged Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,  the People’s Democratic Party’s Presidential candidate to stop overheating the polity with purported self help moves after losing the February presidential elections. The government issued the warning in Abuja at a press conference addressed by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Alhaji Garba Shehu. The minister was reacting to the posters bearing the picture of Atiku with the inscription: ”THE PUKKA, H.E. ATIKU ABUBAKAR, THE REAL AND THE RIGHT”, pasted across major streets in Abuja. He said the appearance of the posters coincided with the media report that Atiku had hired a US lobbying firm to convince the US not to recognise the re-election of President Muhammad Buhari until the Supreme Court has ruled on the suit by the PDP presidential candidate. Mohammed said that the purported actions by the former Vice President was an attempt to win by subterfuge or through the back door the election he lost. The minister said the government was not unaware that Atiku had denied the allegations, and dissociated himself from the posters, however, the response was imperative because of the weighty implications of the actions. Specifically, the minister said the purported actions meant that, Atiku, “out of desperation, is thinking of replicating the Venezuelan model right here in Nigeria. “But he should realize that Nigeria is not Venezuela, and that the situations in both countries are not the same”. The minister said: “The posters and the hiring of US lobbyists, the latest of such by the PDP candidate, have triggered questions about what Alhaji Abubakar is up to. “Is Atiku starting a fresh campaign after the elections have been won and lost? “Has he rescinded his decision to challenge the results of the presidential election in court, perhaps after realising that the results he claimed to have obtained from the INEC-back server are cooked? “As a self-avowed democrat, he should realise that the only lawful channel for challenging the result of an election is through the courts. “Resorting to self-help, as he seems to be doing now, is an act of desperation and the consequences are dire,” Mohammed said.