WorldStage NewsOnline—-As part of efforts to improve power supply in Enugu state and its environ, the Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) has commenced upgrade of its Agu-Awka Injection Sub-station from 7.5MVA to 15MVA capacity, having taken delivery of a brand new 15MVA power transformer. “This is coming in less than 24 hours after upgrade of Ebeano Tunnel Injection Sub-station in Enugu from 7.5MVA to 15MVA capacity was completed,’’ Head of Communications, EEDC, Mr Emeka Ezeh, said in a statement on Saturday in Enugu. Ezeh said that the upgrades were meant to match the rapid increase in electricity load demand by customers, as well as significantly improve the quality of power supply to the affected areas. He said that the upgrade of Agu-Awka Injection Sub-station was planned to last for three days, adding that it would commence on Saturday, April 6. According to him, as a result of this development, electricity customers served by the sub-station will be out of supply during the period of the upgrade. “The areas to be affected are Agu-Awka GRA, UniZik, parts of Nkwele Awka, Amenyi Awka, CBN area, Juhel Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Millennium Industry and Nodu Okpuno. “EEDC, therefore, appeals to its customers to make alternative power supply arrangements during the period of the upgrade and sincerely apologise for the inconveniences this will cause her esteemed customers in Awka. “It is all geared towards improving the quality of service we offer to our customers,’’ Ezeh said. The EEDC spokesman also added that these capital intensive upgrades embarked on by the company were in addition to the ongoing construction of a 1 x 7.5MVA Injection Substation at ABS, Awka. He noted that the 1 x 7.5MVA Injection Substation at ABS, Awka would improve electricity supply to Okpuno, Isuaniocha, Mgbakwu, Urum, Amanuke and the university communities. “These efforts underscore our organisation’s commitment to strategically addressing the power supply needs of our customers. “Customers are also encouraged to reciprocate this gesture by paying their electricity bills and desist from acts capable of undermining the efforts of the company in providing quality and reliable service to its esteemed customers,’’ he said. In 2018, EEDC delivered major network enhancement projects ranging from de-loading of feeders, deployment of relief transformers and replacement of failed transformers. In Enugu State, EEDC completed and commissioned the 1 x 7.5 MVA Nike Lake Injection Substation at Nike, and also constructed three feeders to improve supply to her customers in Nsukka, they are the UNN 33KV, Orba 33KV and Wilson 11KV feeders.