Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu, former Director of Partnerships and
Evaluation, Tony Elumelu Foundation has assumed her new role as the
Foundation’s CEO on April 1. [Ifeyinwa becomes the third CEO and the first
African to become the Chief Executive Officer of the Tony Elumelu Foundation.] In December 2018, the Foundation, the leading African
philanthropy committed to empowering African entrepreneurs, announced Mrs.
Ugochukwu’s new appointment as CEO and the transition of her predecessor,
Parminder Vir, OBE to the Advisory Board of the Foundation. In her role, Mrs. Ugochukwu will focus on scaling the impact
of the 10-year $100million Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship Programme and
strengthening relationships between the African and the global entrepreneurship
ecosystem, to empower African entrepreneurs with the result of creating jobs
and wealth on the continent.  She will
also take responsibility for positioning TEFConnect – the digital networking
platform for African entrepreneurs – as the go-to hub for forging business
relationships, sharing experiences and distributing knowledge across Africa. Mrs. Ugochukwu brings almost two decades of corporate
experience, including her most recent role as the Director of Partnerships and
Evaluation, to her new position.  She is
a proven leader with business vision, emotional intelligence and the ability to
bring people together.  Her ability to
shape how the Foundation should position, partner and engage with the wider,
development ecosystem is what the Foundation needs as it enters its next stage
of scale, expanded impact, monitoring and evaluation, and intelligent mining of
its proprietary data on African entrepreneurship. Speaking on behalf of the Board of Trustees, Tony O.
Elumelu, CON, Founder of the Tony Elumelu Foundation said: “We are
confident that Ifeyinwa is the right person to launch the Foundation into its
new growth phase. Her appointment as CEO strengthens our resolve to scale the
impact of our commitment and unlock opportunities in the entrepreneurship
ecosystem across the continent. I have always said that no one but us will
develop the African continent, and this is a further demonstration of this
resolve,” he said.