Nigeria-based
Value Seeds tops the rankings in new research on seed companies operating in
Western and Central Africa. However, the overall picture is one of
international and African seed companies falling short in delivering quality
seed and new varieties to smallholder farmers. This limits the potential to
address food security, nutrition and climate resilience, according to a new
study by the Amsterdam-based Access to Seeds Foundation. While
there is a growing number of seed companies active in the region, both
homegrown and international, less than half of the 23 companies researched
conduct plant breeding in Western and Central Africa. This limits the release
of new varieties adapted to the region, and explains the high number of
varieties that are older than five years offered in company portfolios. The
Access to Seeds Index 2019 – Western and Central Africa ranks Value Seeds
number one. Like most of the other companies from the region, it operates
exclusively in its home country of Nigeria. It stands out for its maize and
rice ‘value kits’, all-in-one input packages tailored for smallholders. Also,
it provides capacity building activities that specifically target women and
next-generation farmers. Other Nigerian companies also dominate the top half,
such as Maslaha Seeds, Premier Seed, and Da- Allgreen Seeds, showing the
relative strength of the seed industry from Nigeria. Ranked
second is Technisem from France, which has the widest presence in the region,
covering 17 countries and offering training in 13 of them. The company sets an
example by establishing Novalliance, which taps into local potential of
homegrown African seed companies. Among the top- ten index companies that
belong to this group are Tropicasem from Senegal, Semagri from Cameroon, and
Nankosem from Burkina Faso. Their combined breeding efforts result in the most
up-to-date portfolio in the region, with a high number of newly released
varieties. “What
both Value Seeds and Technisem represent is the importance of partnerships to
improve access to seeds in the region,” said Ido Verhagen, Executive
Director at Access to Seeds Index. “In the case of Value Seeds, its
partnership with the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) paid off,
as its grant-based support enabled the company to improve its products and
intensify its outreach to smallholder famers.” For
the most part, open-pollinated varieties still dominate across the region, in
contrast with Eastern Africa and South Asia. The exception is maize, for which
hybrid varieties are more commonly available. In addition, research shows that
for almost half (48%) of the crops, the most recent variety is older than five
years, with only a fifth (21%) having a variety less than three years. The lack
of newly developed varieties seriously impacts the resilience to a changing
climate and emerging disease and pests, which reduces yields. Compared
to a dozen of companies active in Nigeria and Senegal, only one company is
active in each of Central African Republic, Equatorial Guinea and
Guinea-Bissau. “Our study shows the potential of homegrown seed companies.
However, most operate only in their home markets, which causes geographic
imbalances in seed sector development,” said Mr. Verhagen. “This also
means that capacity building activities offered by companies only reach farmers
in a handful of countries. This limits the adoption of new technologies by
farmers in overlooked countries”, he added. “The
relevance of access to seeds and plant breeding should not be
underestimated,” said Verhagen. “The number of undernourished people
in the world reached an estimated 821 million in 2017 – it’s rising. Climate
change and weather extremes have been identified as a major reason for the
increase. The seed industry has a vital role to play in helping farmers to
adapt to climatic challenges while simultaneously raising production
levels.” According
to the FAO  the number of undernourished
people has been on the rise in Western Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole
in recent years. Western Africa has seen undernourishment rise to 15.1% of the
population in 2017 from 10.4% in 2010.

The Access to Seeds Index
2019 is one of the first Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) benchmarks
published by the World Benchmarking Alliance. The alliance was launched in
September 2018 during the UN General Assembly in New York. The Access to Seeds
Index was established with support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
and the Government of the Netherlands. The Access to Seeds Index for Western
and Central Africa focuses on 23 leading seed companies in this region. This
was preceded by rankings of the industry in both Eastern and Southern Africa and
South and Southeast Asia, along with a ranking of Global Seed Companies.