South Sudan’s main rebel group, Sudan People’s Liberation Army-in Opposition (SPLA-IO), said on Monday that they have no intention to return to war amid fears that a fragile 2018 peace deal could unravel. Lam Gabriel, SPLA-IO Deputy Military spokesman, said this on Monday in Juba. Gabriel said the group was committed to the peace agreement and is open for talks with the government to address issues of security arrangements before the formation of a unity government in May. “We are continuing with implementation process peacefully. “So, we are calling for calm from everyone. “The SPLA-IO has got no intention of fighting with anybody,’’ Gabriel said. South Sudan descended into civil war in late 2013 and the conflict has created one of the fastest growing refugee crises in the world. The UN estimates that about four million South Sudanese have been displaced internally and externally. A peace deal signed in August 2015 collapsed, following renewed violence in the capital, Juba in July 2016. Under the 2018 peace deal, opposition leader, Riek Machar, will once again be reinstated as President Salva Kiir’s deputy. But there are concerns that the shaky peace deal may fail again over delays in implementing key provisions of the accord that includes the integration of fighters, determination of the number of states and adoption of a new constitution. Machar’s group have demanded six months extension of the pre-transition period, but President Kiir’s administration has so far refused to grant the request, instead of calling on Machar to come to Juba to form the unity government by May 12. The Intergovernmental Authority on Development, an East African regional bloc, last week invited Kiir and Machar to Ethiopia in an effort to address the stalemate. Gabriel said regardless of the outcome of the Ethiopian talks scheduled for May 2 and May 3, the SPLA-IO would seek peaceful means to resolve the pending dispute. “For us, it is very clear, we are not going back to fight because this country needs peace,’’ Gabriel said.