The Board of the African Development Bank has approved a $15-million
investment package to Infrastructure Credit Guarantee Company
(InfraCredit), to support infrastructure financing through the domestic debt
capital markets in Nigeria. The investment package to
InfraCredit is comprised of a subordinated loan of $10 million and
a risk sharing facility of up to $5 million. This intervention will
promote local currency infrastructure financing, and further development of the
domestic capital market. InfraCredit is a specialized
infrastructure credit guarantee company, established to enhance local currency
debt instruments – mainly bonds, to finance eligible infrastructure projects in
Nigeria. This is intended to uplift the credit rating of such bonds, allowing
institutional investors to include them in their portfolios. InfraCredit
was founded by the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) in
collaboration with GuarantCo (part of the Private Infrastructure Development
Group). These initial investors have been joined by the Africa Finance
Corporation (AFC) and KfW, the German Development Bank. The African Development Bank’s investment
in InfraCredit will catalyze local institutional investor funds, including
pension funds, into financing long-term infrastructure projects through the
local bond markets. The investment boosts InfraCredit’s qualifying capital base
through the subordinated loan; it also improves its capacity to expand its
guarantee business through the proposed risk sharing arrangement. Through this intervention, the African
Development Bank is helping to stimulate local currency financing across
diverse infrastructure transactions, thereby improving economic diversification
and competitiveness, as well as promoting more equitable growth, strengthening
local value chains and financial markets in Nigeria. InfraCredit’s
operations will catalyze infrastructure investments in critical sectors such as
renewable energy, housing, transportation,
agricultural infrastructure, and telecommunications, which are critical for the
country’s economic development. These also align withthe
Bank’s High 5 agenda. Stefan Nalletamby, the Bank’s Director
of the Financial Sector Development said, “The Bank’s supportwill strengthen
the capital base of InfraCredit, underpinning the expansion of the Company’s core business of guaranteeing of bonds issued to
fund infrastructure projects. This adds to the Bank’s existing initiatives to mobilize
domestic institutional savings and stimulate non-sovereign local debt capital
market development in Nigeria. This ultimately helps to increase private sector
financing for critical infrastructure projects in key sectors including energy,
agriculture, water, health and education, through local capital markets”.

The
transaction will also result in the leverage and enhancement of the scope and
impact of the Bank’s interventions alongside private sector financing,
especially from pension funds as well as from co-investment partners. InfraCredit
aims to support up to $1.25 billion in infrastructure financing over the next
few years, by involving the private
sector in infrastructure financing, essential to Nigeria’s economic resilience.