The Kano State Government on Thursday sealed a popular hotel, Mbanefo Holiday Inn at Abeokuta road in Sabon Gari area of Kano over illegal activities. No fewer than 28 persons including 19 Commercial Sex Workers (CSW) and three illegal aliens were arrested by the team that carried out the exercise. Speaking to newsmen shortly after the hotel was sealed, the Managing Director of the state Tourism Management Board, Alhaji Abdullahi Mu’azu-Gwarzo said the hotel was sealed due to violation of state government laws on hotel operations. He said about seven months ago the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) had arrested about 14 illegal aliens including chadian and camerounian nationals. “We are working on the orders of Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje because of the illegal activities being perpetrated in the hotel. “About nine days ago we invited operators of the hotel over some illegal activities. If we allow such things to continue only God knows what will happen in the hotel, “he said. He said the hotel operators were alleged to have been harbouring non Nigerians, teenage girls as well as other suspected criminals. In addition, he said the hotel operators had turned the place as brothel where the rooms are being used for ‘short time’ which is a complete violation of the law guiding hotel operation in the state. Mu’azu-Gwarzo warned hotel operators in state to ensure strict compliance with the laws guiding the operation of hotels as the state government would not hesitate to close down any hotel found flouting the law. He said the state government would continue to monitor the activities of hotel in the state in order to ensure sanity in the system. Earlier while speaking to newsmen, the Hotel Manager, Mr Boniface Anayochukwu said ““I registered the hotel but the licence was later revoked and I was asked to apply for a new one. “We have been operating for 40 years if we are not registered how can we operate for these number of years”. He, however, called on the state government to reopen the hotel as he was ready to comply with the state laws guiding hotel operation.