Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu was last week re-elected the President of the African Petroleum Producers’ Organization (APPO) for the year 2019, in a move that will allow him conclude the ongoing reforms and restructuring of the Organization. This marks a historical moment for the Organization as it is the first time that any member country is allowed to provide the President of the Organization for two consecutive years. By this development, Nigeria has held the Presidency of APPO for three out of the four years of President Buhari’s administration. The only gap was when Chad led the Organization in 2017. The reelection of Dr. Kachikwu took place during the 36th Ordinary
Session of the Council of Ministers of the APPO which held in Malabo,
Equatorial Guinea under the high patronage of H.E. Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, the
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. The Ministerial Session had in
attendance, APPO Ministers drawn from thirteen member countries; namely,
Algeria, Angola, Benin, Cameroon, Congo, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Gabon, Libya, Niger, and Nigeria. In his validation speech, Dr. Kachikwu enthused the unalloyed support
that he has received from the members of the Council while affirming his
commitment to making deep and sustained reforms that will not only guide its
members to make the best returns in its energy business but also firmly
reposition APPO as a global force. It would be recalled that under Dr. Kachikwu’s Presidency of APPO in
2015-2016, the Organization embarked on a major reform aimed sharpening the
focus of the Organization, enhancing professionalism and strengthening the
capacity of the APPO Secretariat to conduct studies that will enhance the
productivity of the African oil and gas industry, especially investing in
trans-national infrastructure like pipelines and refineries and the development
of local content. In addition to reforming APPO, Dr. Kachikwu was also mandated
to reform and recapitalize the Cotonou-based APPO Fund for Technical
Development. In this connection, Dr. Kachikwu submitted far-reaching proposals
to the Ministerial Council, which unanimously approved its implementation.
Among the major changes approved by the Ministerial Council was a change in the
name of APPO Fund to AEICORP, African Energy Investment Corporation. Unlike
APPO whose shareholders were limited to sovereign governments, AEICORP shall be
open to sovereigns as well as institutional and private investors. AEICORP
targets one US$1 billion in investment capital to fund energy infrastructure on
the African continent. This recent reelection will see Dr. Kachikwu complete
the ongoing reforms that will emplace APPO towards leaving a lasting legacy
that will ensure that Africans benefit from the continent’s hydrocarbon
resources. Dr. Kachikwu expressed his gratitude to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
and the host Minister, H.E. Gabriel Obiang Lima for the excellent hospitality
shown to the delegation and commended the world-class project execution of the
APPO CAPE VII Congress and Exhibition. In another development in Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, Ministers of the
24 Nation Declaration of Cooperation, DoC, comprising 14 OPEC and 10 Non-OPEC
Oil Producing Countries, announced the appointment of Nigeria as a Member of
the Joint Technical Committee (JTC) and Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee
(JMMC) of the Member Countries of the DoC. 
The JMMC comprises 2 non-OPEC countries, namely The Russian Federation
and Kazakhstan and six OPEC countries, namely Algeria, Iraq, Kuwait, Nigeria,
Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Venezuela. The elevation of Nigeria to the JMMC is in recognition of the key role
Nigeria’s Minister and Head of Delegation to OPEC, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu
played in the diplomatic shuttles and negotiations that led to the founding of
the DoC in 2016. It will be recalled that in his maiden Presidential address to
the OPEC Ministerial Conference in December 2015, Dr. Kachikwu had decried a
situation where OPEC was making all the efforts to stabilize the global oil
market, while non-OPEC producers were reaping where they did not sow, and
emphasized the need for joint efforts by all oil producers to stabilize the market.
That statement set the tone for the quest for a formal forum for cooperation
and collaboration to stabilize the oil market. In accepting the offer from the JMMC, which needs to be ratified by the
OPEC Conference, Dr. Kachikwu assured the Committee of his continuous
commitment and that of Nigeria to the processes that will lead to the
stabilization of the oil market.