WorldStage NewsOnline—-National Director (mobilisation), of the Buhari Campaign Organisation, Mr Johnson Podar has called on the Federal Government to set up a special squad to tackle kidnapping in the country. Podar who disclosed this in an interview on Wednesday in Jos said the menace was “getting worse every day’’, and suggested the establishment of a team specially trained and equipped to tackle it. “Kidnapping has become one of the most dreaded security challenges in the country. Bombing has gone down and the Boko Haram insurgents have been neutralised, but kidnapping has replaced these crimes. “It has become a major concern that seems to be spreading wider. It is a new trend in the country that must be tackled before it erodes the gains we have achieved on the security front. “The criminals get smarter every day; what it means is that we have to devise some superior tactics to check them so as to make Nigeria a safer place for its residents,’’ he said. Podar, who also spoke on Buhari’s re-election, said that the campaign organisation was not surprised at the ease with which victory was attained because the masses were happy with Buhari’s policies and were eager to reward him with four more years. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to keep the focus on his three focal points of promoting security, economic recovery and fighting corruption. “He (Buhari), has done well in the three areas and should use the additional four years to pursue them even more vigorously. “The attention to the agriculture sector has ensured more jobs for many people. It has also provided more food for everyone. “We have reduced, very significantly, the importation of rice and saved valuable foreign currency. “Rice farmers have become richer and have contributed to economic growth. So, the agricultural sector has regained its prime place in Nigeria. “The anti-corruption fight has also recorded massive success and restored integrity and decency in the way we do things. “People are now very careful and afraid to collect, or ask for, gratification. People have even denied their properties and monies in illicit accounts. A lot has changed,’’ he said. Podar also urged Buhari to work toward uniting Nigerians to forge common grounds toward building a strong nation, saying that the nation would be the better for it if its citizens were committed to making it great. On those to be appointed into various offices, he advised Buhari to focus on merit so as to maximise productivity and bequeath a lasting legacy that would serve as a reference point to young Nigerians. “Buhari already has legacies that will outlive him; he is not materialistic, he is also an honest man of honour that is full of humility. He is also a very contented man, a good attribute required of every leader. “But, he needs to achieve more in the area of economic development so as to put Nigeria on the path of steady growth and restore hope to the nation. If he accomplishes that, he will always be remembered as someone who rescued the nation from the brink of collapse,’’ he said.