One
hundred and seventy-three (173) entries have been submitted to the Nigeria Prize
for Literature sponsored by Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG). The
prize focuses on Children’s Literature in 2019. The number of entries this year
show a 59% increase as compared to number of entries received in 2015, when the
genre was last up for competition. The
company also received 10 entries for the Literary Criticism Prize. The
Literature prize, which is now in its 15th year, has a cash prize of $100, 000
while the Literary Criticism Prize has a prize money of N1 million. The
number of entries was announced yesterday in Lagos during the handover of the
entries to the Advisory Board of the prize, signifying the beginning of the
judging process which will culminate in the announcement of the winner. While
handing over the entries to the Advisory Board, chaired by Professor Emeritus
Ayo Banjo, NLNG’s Manager, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, Andy
Odeh, said “as we deliver these 173 books for your vetting, we eagerly look
forward to the discovery of yet another literary gem that will open up
possibilities for millions of children not only in Nigeria, but all over the
Africa.” “We can confidently say that the Nigeria Prize
for Literature has brought some previously unknown Nigerian writers to public
attention. Our generation and those after us are becoming familiar with not
just legends like Wole Soyinka, Chinua Achebe, Gabriel Okara, Elechi Amadi, and
Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo, Mabel Segun and other writers of longstanding acclaim
that, perhaps, some of us had the opportunity of reading as children, but also
a new cadre of writers like Kaine Agary, Adeleke Adeyemi, Tade Ipadeola, Ikeogu
Oke, Soji Cole and others.” During
the handover, Chairman of the Advisory Board, Professor Ayo Banjo recalled it
was exactly 15 years after the first handover event was held.  He stated that at the start of this year’s
cycle, the board was a bit jittery over the prize not being awarded in 2015 and
writers being discouraged to send in their entries. “When
the call for entries was made, entries trickled in at the beginning but toward
the deadline, it picked up and crossed the 100 mark. Professor Banjo said
further that the board is hopeful that the numeric strength of the entries will
be matched by strength in quality of the submissions,” he added” He
commended NLNG for having the vision to create the literature prize and The
Nigeria Prize for Science, saying “the prizes have raised the creativity in the
country, whether you are writing poetry or trying to solve the problem of
electricity in the country.” He remarked further that NLNG has done its share
of work in promoting innovation and creativity in the society, adding that “the
company is contributing to the emergence of original thinkers and highly
creative people in the society. It has managed to do that in the space of 15
years.” The
entries, which came in response to a call for entries published in the national
media in February 2018, will be examined on their merits of excellence in
language, creativity and book quality. The
entries were immediately handed over to the panel of judges led by Professor
Obododinma Oha. Professor Oha is a professor of Cultural Semiotics and
Stylistics in the Department of English, University of Ibadan with great
interest in technology and language. He currently teaches in the Department of
English and Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies, now a unit of the Institute
for Peace and Strategic Studies, where he teaches Disaster Semiotics. While
receiving the entries, Professor Oha said “we have been saddled with a big
responsibility and we will discharge our assignment credibly.” Other
members of the panel include Professor Asabe Usman Kabir and Dr. Patrick Okolo.
Professor Kabir is a professor of Oral and African Literature at Usmanu
Danfodiyo University Sokoto. Dr. Oloko, a Senior lecturer at the University of
Lagos Nigeria, specialises in African postcolonial literature, gender and
cultural studies. The
winners of the Literature and Literary Criticism prizes will be announced at an
award ceremony in October 2019, to commemorate the anniversary of the first LNG
export from the NLNG’s Plant on October 9, 1999. Members
of the Advisory Board for the Literature Prize, besides Professor Banjo,
two-time Vice-Chancellor of Nigeria’s premier university, University of Ibadan,
are Prof. Jerry Agada, former Minister of State for Education, former President
of the Association of Nigerian Authors, and Professor Emeritus Ben Elugbe,
former President of the Nigerian Academy of Letters and president of the
West-African Linguistic Society (2004-2013). The
Nigeria Prize for Literature has since 2004 rewarded eminent writers such as
Soji Cole (2018, Drama), the Ikeogu Oke (2017, Poetry) with The Heresiad;
Abubakar Adam Ibrahim (2016, Prose) with Season of Crimson Blossoms; Sam Ukala
(2014; Drama) with Iredi War; Tade Ipadeola (2013; Poetry) with his collection
of poems, Sahara Testaments; Chika Unigwe (2012 – prose), with her novel, On
Black Sister’s Street; as well as Adeleke Adeyemi (2011, children’s literature)
with his book, The Missing Clock. Other
past winners of the prize are Esiaba Irobi (2010, Drama) who clinched the prize
posthumously with his book, Cemetery Road; Kaine Agary (2008, Prose) with Yellow;
Mabel Segun (co-winner, 2007, Children’s Literature) for her collection of
short plays, Reader’s Theatre; Professor Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo (co-winner,
2007, Children’s Literature) with her book, My Cousin Sammy; Ahmed Yerima
(2006, Drama) for his classic, Hard Ground; and Gabriel Okara (co-winner, 2005,
Poetry), Professor Ezenwa Ohaeto (co-winner, 2005, Poetry). The
Nigeria Prize for Literature and The Nigeria Prize for Science are part of
Nigeria LNG Limited’s numerous contributions towards building a better Nigeria.