The Honorable Minister of
State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu on Saturday 13th of
April visited the ERHA FPSO operated by ExxonMobil Nigeria. This visit by Dr.
Kachikwu not only marks a defining one for the Nation but also highlights a
personal achievement for the Minister considering that he took on his current
portfolio from his then position as the Executive Vice Chairman of Mobil
Producing Nigeria Unlimited and General Counsel for ExxonMobil Nigeria
affiliate Upstream and Downstream Companies in Nigeria. This latest round of
visits to the FPSO’s is to provoke the Oil Production Fields of Nigeria to ramp
up their crude production and unlock gas in line with the Gas Revolution Agenda
of the #7BigWins. He was received by Richard Laing, Executive Director and
Production Manager of ExxonMobil Nigeria while Scott Hommema, PhD, the General
Manager, Deepwater Operations and Joint Interest, took him and his delegation
on a tour of the FPSO. While addressing key
business concerns of ExxonMobil Nigeria, Dr. Kachikwu urged them to not only
focus on the profitability of the firm but also on giving back to the society
having been doing business around the country for a long time. He commended the
crew on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria for their sacrifice,
urgency of attention and value addition while conveying President Muhammadu
Buhari’s deep commitment to the welfare of those on the production fields. Dr. Kachikwu name-checked
the Department of Petroleum Resources’ automation initiatives that include
Crude Oil and LNG Tracking (COLT), Automatic Downstream System (ADS) and
Accelerated Lease Renewal Program (ALRP). He also referenced the community
engagement drive of the organization evidenced by the peace and harmony seen in
operating areas.

The Executive Director and Production Manager of ExxonMobil Nigeria,
Richard Laing, also used the opportunity to firmly debunk the unsubstantiated
rumor about the Organizations exit from Nigeria. He further noted that the ERHA
field is located in Oil Mining Lease (OML) 133 and ExxonMobil Nigeria holds a
56.25% participating interest while Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production
Company (SNEPCO) holds the remaining 43.75% share. The Floating, Production,
Storage and Offloading (FPSO) has about 2.2 million barrels of storage capacity
making it one of the largest of its kind, globally.