Socio-Economic Rights and
Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent a Freedom of Information request to
governor Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa of Delta State requesting him to use his “good
offices and leadership position to urgently provide information on details of
the budgetary allocations and actual spending by your government to provide and
ensure access of Nigerian children to free and quality primary school education
in your state between 2015 and 2019.” SERAP said: “The evidence of
education deficit in the state is further buttressed by the case of Success
Adegor, who was sent home because her parents could not pay the illegal school
fee/levy of N900 and the insufficient and poor-quality education infrastructure
of Okotie-Eboh Primary School 1, Sapele.” The group also said: “If we
have not heard from you within 7 days of the receipt and/or publication of this
letter, the Registered Trustees of SERAP shall take all appropriate legal
actions to compel you to comply with our request.” In the FOI request dated 5
April 2019 and signed by SERAP deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare, the group
said: “Full development of human personality is essential objective of
education. A strong Delta State in the future requires a strong education
system today. A poor education system will severely cripple Delta State’s
future growth, development and sustainability, both socially and economically.
Providing the information as requested would show your commitment to ensuring
access to quality education as a public good.” According to SERAP: “Despite
the huge resources available to your government and the massive budgetary
allocations to primary education in your State including from the UBEC funds,
several of the around 1,124 primary schools across the State are in shambles,
and with very poor teaching facilities, thereby jeopardizing the futures of
tens of thousands of Nigerian children in the State.” The FOI request read in
part: “SERAP notes that since assuming office, your government has received
over N7.8 billion from Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC). Your
government has also received funds from federal allocations to Delta State.
Your government accessed over N3 billion of UBEC funds between 2015 and 2016,
while also reportedly approved the release of N1.28 billion counterpart fund to
enable it access UBEC funds for 2017. 
Your government also received N213 billion from Federation Accounts
Allocation Committee (FAAC) in 2018, at an average of N17.8 billion monthly.” “We urge you to provide details of budgetary
allocations and actual spending by your government between 2015 and 2019,
including specific projects carried out to improve access to free and quality
primary education in your state, the locations of such projects and the primary
schools that have benefited from the projects.” “We also seek information on specific details
of the steps your government is taking to improve the overall welfare of
children in primary schools across your state, and details of your government’s
fee-free programme, if any, across primary schools in the state and information
on indirect costs, including uniforms, exercise books, and transport costs to
students and their parents.” “Your government should also provide details
of specific projects by your government to improve access to education for children
with disabilities.” “SERAP believes that investment in education
is an obligation of States under human rights law, and adequate resources must
be allocated to the education sector including primary education on enduring
basis and in a transparent and accountable manner.” “Promoting transparency and accountability in
the spending on primary schools would demonstrate your commitment to achieve
the goal of universal quality education for all free of costs, as stated in the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations Summit
in July 2015.” “The goal 4 of the Agenda stipulates that ‘By
2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality
primary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning
outcomes.’” “We note that it is the statutory
responsibility of State Governments in Nigeria to provide free, compulsory and
universal basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary
school age by virtue of Section 2(1) of the Universal Basic Education
Commission (UBEC) Act 2004. Further, under Section 18(1)(a) of the 1999
Constitution of Nigeria (as amended), government at all levels in Nigeria
should strive to eradicate illiteracy and provide free, compulsory and universal
primary education to the citizens.” “Nigeria is also a state party to the
Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights and the African Charter on Human and Peoples’
Rights, which require states parties to respect, protect, promote and fulfil
the right to education including primary education.” “These laws and treaties obligate your
government to ensure the enjoyment of the right to primary education, including
by promoting transparency and accountability in the spending on education, and
taking steps to improve and expand quality and free education for all.” “By virtue of Section 1 (1) of the FOI Act,
SERAP is entitled as of right to request for or gain access to information,
including information on details of budgetary allocations and actual spending
on primary schools in Delta State. By virtue of Section 4 (a) of the Act when a
person makes a request for information from a public official, institution or
agency, the public official, institution or urgency to whom the application is
directed is under a binding legal obligation to provide the applicant with the
information requested for, except as otherwise provided by the Act, within 7
days after the application is received.” “By Sections 2(3)(d)(V) & (4) of the Act,
there is a binding legal duty to ensure that documents containing information
relating to spending of allocations and spending is widely disseminated and
made readily available to members of the public through various means.” “The information being requested does not come
within the purview of the types of information exempted from disclosure by the
provisions of the FOI Act. The information bothers on an issue of access to
education, development, good governance, transparency and accountability. The
disclosure of the information requested will give SERAP and the general public
a true picture on how budgetary allocations and UBEC funds received by your
state have been spent to provide access to free quality primary education.”