On the sidelines of the World Bank-IMF Spring
meetings, Canada announced a $1.1 billion commitment in temporary callable
capital to support the African Development Bank. Canada’s announcement, to be approved by the
Bank’s governors, was made by Maryam Monsef, the Canadian Minister of International
Development and for Women and Gender Equality. “I am happy to say that today, Canada is
demonstrating its commitment to African countries and our confidence in the
African Development Bank by announcing that we are going to subscribe up to US$
1.1 billion in temporary callable capital, if required.” Minister Monsef
told members of the
Diplomatic Corps based in Washington D.C., governors of the African Development
Bank, executive directors, including executive director David Stevenson, who
represents Canada,
China, Korea, Turkey and Kuwait.
The Bank’s senior management team was also in attendance. The announcement comes a day after a meeting
of the Bank’s governors in Washington D.C. to continue discussions on a 7th
General Capital Increase. “The African Development Bank is a key
partner for Canada and we are committed to supporting the Bank’s African member
countries. Canada and Canadians are proud of our long history of partnership
and collaboration with Africa,” Monsef noted, before reminding the 100
attendees that Canada was determined to ensure that “no less than 50% of
bilateral development assistance is dedicated to sub-Saharan Africa by
2021-2022.” Commenting on the announcement, the Bank’s
President, Dr Akinwumi A. Adesina said “Canada’s commitment and support is
a huge boost to the African Development Bank. It will allow the Bank to
strengthen its Triple A rating and increase lending to member countries while
discussions are ongoing among all shareholders for a general capital
Increase.” “Your announcement is a clear indication
that Canada has strong confidence in the African Development Bank,”
Adesina added, while extending the Bank’s appreciation to Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau for Canada’s unwavering support. Minister Monsef urged other AAA-rated member
countries to join Canada in providing temporary callable capital to the Bank.
“I sincerely hope that this announcement will facilitate the general
capital Increase negotiations and help support your efforts. Canada stands with
you.” In a follow-up
bilateral meeting, Minister Monsef and President Adesina discussed values and
interests in common on gender and increasing access to finance for women, as
well as on climate and renewable energy issues. Canada has been a
member of the African Development Bank since January 1983 and
has participated in all general capital increases of the Bank. It provided
temporary callable capital in 2010 while the GCI VI negotiations were
ongoing.  That decision enabled the Bank to continue to provide its
support to regional member countries in the aftermath of the international
financial crisis. As at 30 June 2018,
Canada’s total capital subscribed amounted to $3.5 billion of which $252
million has been paid in and $3.22 billion stands as callable capital,
making Canada the 4th largest shareholder among the Bank’s non-regional
member countries.