The Rice Processors
Association of Nigeria (RIPAN) has raised an alarm that over one million metric
tons of rice have been smuggled into Nigeria in the last three months. The Chairman of RIPAN,
Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar Maifata made the startling revelation while briefing
the media in Abuja on the latest development in rice smuggling in the country. Maifata said: “Investors in
Nigeria have made enormous financial commitment in the Rice Sub-sector.
Unfortunately, the only threat to the industry’s total development, is
Smuggling.. Over 1 million metric tons of Rice which is equivalent to about
20,000,000 bags of 50kg Rice have been smuggled into Nigeria in the last 3
months. “Nigeria currently loses huge revenues,
foreign exchange and Jobs to this menace as Nigeria Rice Processing companies
are shutting down because of their inability to gain market access. “More painfully millions of small-holder
Farmers are stuck with their Paddy because the Millers can no longer afford to
buy from them.” He said investigations
conducted by the Association in the last few months indicated that “all our
international borders have been converted to smugglers route and our markets
are filled with smuggled foreign rice”. He cautioned that “there is
the need for urgent actions to avert eventual national food emergency by
combating smuggling so that we can continue to grow our local Rice industry and
the economy”. While commending the efforts
by the Central bank of Nigeria (CBN) in its intervention in the rice sub-sector
of the economy, he lamented that investors in the country despite their
financial commitment are met with the threat to the industry’s growth due to
the activities of smugglers Speaking further on CBN and
federal government deliberate intervention in the sub-sector the RIPAN boss who
is also the Chairman Umza International Farms Limited said “all the programmes
have impacted greatly on our integrated processing capacity which has increased
from 800,000 Metric tons in 2014 to 1.6 million metric in 2018.  This is in addition to about 3.9 million
metric tons of finished Rice milled by thousands of cottage millers scattered
across the country”. The Association among other
things recommended the immediate raid of the various Rice smugglers market
across the country while appealing to the Federal Government to begin to
sanction officers and employees of Customs, NAFDAC, SON who are saddled with
the responsibility of enforcement,  and
who compromise their offices or fail in their various responsibilities. The RIPAN boss drew the
attention of Government to the fact that some officers working in these
Government Agencies are in collaboration with these smugglers and called on the
authorities to fish them out and prosecute them for Economic Sabotage. “Government must deal firmly
with smuggling and severely punish infractions in a way that makes smuggling
too costly to risk. Particularly, Government must begin the fish out and punish
multinational Companies who play on both sides of the Border; – those who drive
the syndicates (the Promoters)”, he said Maifata also stated that
“Government must as a matter of urgent national importance, take strong
diplomatic action with our neighboring countries who allow Parboiled Rice into
their country for final destination to Nigeria. The Government may consider
closing the Borders for some time if diplomatic overtures fail”.