WorldStage NewsOnline—-The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), PDP National Chairman, Mr Uche Secondus, PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar and others  have congratulated Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers on his victory in the just-concluded governorship election in the state. The governor was declared winner of the poll by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday in Lagos after a resumed collation of ballots of the poll held across the country on March 9. Collation of the votes was suspended by the INEC, which cited violence and other electoral irregularities during the election in the state, as reason for the action. The PDP in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan,described Wike’s re-election as “victory for the people of Rivers and triumph of good over evil.” INEC declared that Wike won the election with 886,264 votes, while his opponent, Mr Biokpomabo Awara, of African Alliance Congress (AAC) trailed with 173,859 votes. Ologbondiyan said that Wike’s record 700,000 votes margin of victory “speaks volume of the resilience of the people of the state in the face of intimidations, harassment and manipulations by oppressive forces”. He said that the victory reinforced the confidence of the people in the resoluteness of asserting their democratic choice of leadership as well as standing in defence of their mandate to the end. The party’s spokesman added that the victory also demonstrated that the will of the people would always prevail against every form of suppression. He said that All Progressives Congress (APC) wanted to forcefully take over control of the state against the wish of the people. “The party salutes and venerates all compatriots who were killed by agents of the oppressors during the election. These compatriots did not die in vain and those who shed their innocent blood will surely bebrought to book. “The PDP commends Wike, the people of Rivers and all lovers of democracy across the board for standing firm until the end to hand this disgraceful defeat to the enemies of the people.” Ologbondiyan also congratulated all PDP candidates, who won elections at all levels across the country. He assured those pursuing their mandates at the tribunals that the party was fully behind them, “given that they all have water tight cases at the courts”. Similarly, PDP National Chairman, Mr Uche Secondus, commended the resilience of party members across the country, particularly the elected ones, for extraordinary show of capacity to resist and withstand brutality, blatant intimidation, harassment and political terrorism. In a statement issued by his Media Aide, Mr Ike Abonyi, the chairman said that PDP was proud of all its flag bearers and their conduct during and after the elections. “By your peaceful conduct in the face of provocations, you have demonstrated truly that democracy is in your DNA and this we will continue to exhibit until all non-democrats pretending to be one are flushed out of our polity.” Secondus said that the victorious PDP flag-bearers did not only contest with All Progressives Congress (APC), but with some INEC and military personnel allegedly compromised allegedly compromised. He said that the introduction of inconclusive and suspension of polling in the country’s electoral process was ostensibly to aide APC to victory through supplementary balloting. Secondus said that the APC, however, could not achieve it aim in Rivers, Bauchi, Adamawa, Sokoto and Benue because of the doggedness of committed democrats in the PDP. The  Peoples Democratic  Party (PDP) presidential candidate in the just concluded election, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi have congratulated Wike on his re-election. Wike won the election with 886,264 votes, while Mr Biokpomabo Awara of the African Alliance Congress (AAC) who came second scored 173,859 votes Atiku in a statement issued on Wednesday in Abuja described  Wike’s victory  as hard earned re-election. “It gives me much pleasure to see a political force for good, such as yourself, overcome the anti-democratic forces of dictatorship and oppression. “The PDP is blessed to have a political gladiator, such as yourself on our side. ” I am favoured to count you, Gov. Wike, as my friend and brother, and Rivers as my second home.” Atiku said that as Wike’s was savoured by men of goodwill all over Nigeria, he was   sure that the governor would continue the pattern of good works for which he had become known for. “Nigeria needs men like you. Men who can remain firm, unbowed and resolute in the face of trying times. “You have proved that you have character under trial, and not just when the going is good. “Such refinement will stand you in good stead as, by the grace of God, you finish the good work you have started in Rivers.” On his part, Obi, in a statement issued by his Media Office said that all lovers of democracy must salute the resilience of the people of Rivers who stood in defence of their votes. He  said that the people would not have been bigoted to Gov. Wike if he had not made appreciable impact in their lives through delivery of good governance. Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has congratulated Gov. Wike, on his re-election. His congratulatory message was conveyed in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Charles Aniagwu, on Wednesday in Asaba. He said that indeed, in a true democracy, power belonged to the people. “Although the Rivers State Governorship Election took a long and difficult time, at the end, the will of the people prevailed. “I must thank the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) for doing the right thing in ensuring that the true results that emanated from the units were duly collated,” Okowa said. He commended Rivers people for unflinching loyalty and support for the PDP, and assured them that Wike would deliver more projects for them in his second tenure. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta State, I congratulate my dear brother and colleague, Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, on his well-deserved victory in the just-concluded Rivers Governorship Election.