WorldStage Newsonline–  The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has announced the passing of one of its airmen, Corporal Meshach Iliya Komo, who died in Kaduna today in a parachuting accident during recurrency training. According to a statment, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar on behalf officers, airmen and airwomen of the NAF  commiserated with the family of the late airman over the irreparable loss and prayed that the Almighty God grants his soul eternal rest. In another development, NAF said in continuation of its sustained intensive air operations against armed bandits’ hideouts in Zamfara State and its environs, the Air Task Force (ATF) for Operation DIRAN MIKIYA had destroyed some logistics stores belonging to the bandits at a location within Kagara Forest. “The operation was executed on 13 April 2019, following credible intelligence reports indicating that some of the armed bandits who had fled their camps as a result of NAF’s earlier air strikes had relocated some logistics items, including fuel, motorcycles and local arms making equipment, to another location within Kagara Forest,” according to a statement. “Accordingly, the ATF dispatched an Mi-35 helicopter gunship, supported by an Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) platform, to attack the target. “The target area initially appeared uninhabited. However, as the helicopter approached, some of the bandits were seen emerging from under the shrubbery and running away from the area. “The helicopter engaged the target recording successful hits on the logistics facility, which was engulfed in flames with thick black smoke seen. “Some armed bandits, who fired at the aircraft, were taken out by the helicopter. Reports from independent sources, including local informants and village leaders around the general area, later confirmed that the logistics base was totally destroyed and 4 armed bandits killed as a result of the attack. “The NAF, working in consonance with surface forces and other security agencies, will sustain its operations to flush the bandits out of the Northwest of the Country.” Meanwhile, the Chief of the Air Staff has charged NAF personnel to remain resolute in the fight against insurgency and other forms of criminality in the country as their welfare would continue to receive utmost priority. The CAS, who said this in Maiduguri  while getting updates from the Air Task Force (ATF) Commander, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) James Gwani, on NAF’s support to Operations LAFIA DOLE and YANCIN TAFKI, commended Officers and Airmen/Airwomen of the Service for their patriotism, diligence and commitment to dealing with the insurgency and other internal security challenges facing the Nation. He noted that the NAF has continued to evolve strategies that have adequately positioned the Service to deal with current and emerging challenges. While in Maiduguri, the CAS took time out to commission a new aircraft technicians’ crew room and a block of 30 single-bedroom accommodation for personnel of the Unit.He noted that the Service has entrusted multimillion Dollar equipment in the care of the technicians and therefore their welfare is paramount to the Service. The crew room was named after a fallen hero, Master Warrant Officer Zabesan Hosea, who made the supreme sacrifice in an Mi-35P crash at Girei, Adamawa State on 13 November 2014.Air Marshal Abubakar reaffirmed the commitment of the NAF leadership to provide the necessary requirements for the ATF to effectively prosecute the war. He also expressed gratitude to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, for his overwhelming support to the NAF, whilst re-stating the unwavering commitment of the Service to the execution of its constitutional roles. The CAS equally seized the opportunity to commiserate with the family of Late Aircraftman Umaru Abdul Ganimu, who died recently as a result of a helicopter rotor strike accident. Also present at the event were the Chief of Training and Operations Headquarters NAF, AVM Oladayo Amao, Theatre Commander Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Major General Benson Akinroluyo, as well as many other senior military Officers.