Two importers,
Emmanuel Anthony Nnan and John Paul Ejike have been remanded in prison custody
on the orders of Chief Magistrate O.A. Oshin of the Igbosere Magistrate Court,
Lagos, pending their arraignment at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos on
allegation of forging the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) import
documents to bring in suspected substandard liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)
cylinders. According to
the SON Prosecutor, Adeleke Olofindare, the suspects were apprehended when they
presented forged product registration certificate with the signature of a
former SON chief Executive to the organisation’s officials at No. 3 Burma Road
Apapa for importation of containers of suspected substandard LPG
cylinders. They were
promptly arrested and handed over to the Police for further interrogation. The
prosecution thus applied for a detention order before Chief Magistrate O.A.
Oshin of the Igbosere Magistrate Court pending their arraignment which was
granted. The charge
against the accused read in part, 
“That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan of Plot 18 32D, House 1, Close 3rd
Avenue, Festac Town Lagos,  John Paul
Ejike of 50 Bornu Crescent Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd of 2
Royal Plaza, Alaba Market, Ojo Lagos respectively, on or about 24th April, 2019
while at SON office No. 3 Burma Road, Apapa within the jurisdiction of this
Honourable Court document in writing knowing same to be false with intent that
the false documents will be used as genuine and thereby committed an offence
contrary to Section 465 and 516 of the Criminal Code Act Cap C38 Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria 2004. “That you
Emmanuel Anthony Nnan of Plot 18 32D, House 1, Close 3rd Avenue, Festac Town
Lagos,  John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu
Crescent Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd of 2 Royal Plaza,
Alaba Market, Ojo Lagos respectively, on or about 24th April, 2019 while at SON
office No. 3 Burma Road, Apapa within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court
did forged SON product registration certificate with intention of causing same
to be believed to have been issued by SON and thereby committed an offence
contrary to Section 465 and punishable under Section 467 of the Criminal Code
Act Cap C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “That you
Emmanuel Anthony Nnan of Plot 18 32D, House 1, Close 3rd Avenue, Festac Town
Lagos,  John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu
Crescent Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd of 2 Royal Plaza,
Alaba Market, Ojo Lagos respectively, on or about 24th April, 2019 while at SON
office No. 3 Burma Road, Apapa within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court
did fail to comply with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria’s Conformity
Assessment Scheme (SONCAP) to wit; importing Gas Cylinders , Dealing in and
having in possession product not having the requisite SONCAP Certificate and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 31 (2) of the Standards
Organisation of Nigeria Act 2015. It will be
recalled that the SON Chief Executive, Osita Aboloma Esq. earlier in the year
admonished stakeholders in import and manufacturing businesses to comply
strictly with the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) for
locally manufactured products and the 
offshore Conformity Assessment Programme (SONCAP) for imports,
reiterating the organisation’s determination to prosecute all standards
infractions.