WorldStage Newsonline– Fidelity Bank Plc on Wednesday said that it has produced 60 millionaires under the Get Alert in Millions Savings (GAIM) Season 3 promo. Mrs Chijioke Ugochukwu, the bank’s Executive Director, Shared Services and Product, stated at the fifth monthly prize presentation in Lagos. Ugochukwu said that the bank would produce 17 more millionaires before the promo closes in the middle of the year. She said that the bank had given out N79 million to lucky customers in GAIM 3 and still have outstanding N31 million to dole out before the closure of the promo, which included grand prize of N10 million. Ugochukwu said that the promo was initiated to boost financial inclusion and savings culture. She, however, called on existing and new customers to embrace the initiative aimed at rewarding loyal customers. Ugochukwu said that the bank had earmarked a total of N110 million to be won by customers for the GAIM season three initiative. She said that the savings promo allowed the bank to go into nooks and crannies of the country to enlighten people on financial inclusion. Ugochukwu noted that the initiative was in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s directives for financial inclusion. Mr Richard Madiebo, the bank’s Divisional Head, Retail Banking, said that the bank had made banking easy through the promotion. Madiebo called on Nigerians to take advantage of the initiative to open an account with Fidelity Bank, noting that customers stand the chance of winning N1 million, N2 million or even more. Also speaking, the Promo Manager, Mrs Janet Nnabuko, said that the promo was for both old and new customers and consists of monthly draws, bi-monthly draws and bi-monthly “To be eligible participate in the monthly draws, you should have an existing savings account and top it up with N10,000 every month and for the bi-monthly draws, you have to maintain a minimum of N50, 000 every month to participate. Two of Lagos customers namely Ms Chinyere Chima and Mr Ifeanyi Chiedozie, who won N1 million and N2 million, respectively were rewarded at the event. Some other customers were rewarded with consolation prizes comprising generators, refrigerators and television sets.