WorldStage Newsonline–  ECOWAS Parliamentarians have raised concern over the Implementation of developmental projects in some member states. According to a statement, speaking in Conakry at the ongoing Delocalized meeting of the joint committee on  communications and information Technology/Committee on Education, science and Technology / Committee on Labour Employment, youth, sports and Culture, the Chairman Committee on communication and Hon. Halidou Nassirou from Niger said that it was necessary for members states to intensify efforts in ensuring that ECOWAS projects are carried out for a sustainable regional  integration. During a presentation, the ECOWAS Commissioner Industry and Private Sector Promotion,  Mamadou Traore maintained that the ECOWAS Commission was committed in strengthening Small and Medium Enterprises through its regional Capacity Building Programmes. He disclosed that the commission was ready to address some of the challenges being experience in the region through its ” new  investment policy” coming up in December this year. He said Entrepreneurship and SMEs were the foundation of societies including ECOWAS. According to him, they can provide inclusive development , decent jobs for the majority and opportunity to turn our bourgeoning population into a dividend instead of a curse. He however lamented that key challenges to the growth of Entrepreneurship and SMEs in ECOWAS region due to insufficient capacity , poor business climate , general lack of access market and relevant finance among others.He opined that ECOWAS Parliamentarians can through their position in the region improve these difficulties by supporting regional and national programs , and paying more attention to their implementation. He said that the Parliamentary Committee responsible for matters of Entrepreneurship and SMEs development should be strengthened to more effectively monitor implementation of relevant ECOWAS regional policies and programs. “This present meeting is evidence that parliament is determined to be more committed to supporting the implementation of entrepreneurship and SMEs development in ECOWAS,” he said. “I hope that our contributions will help parliament achieve its objectives in this regard fully.”