Leading Electricity
Distribution Company, Ikeja Electric (IE), has partnered with foremost mobile
phones sales/support services company, Slot Foundation, to train 40 youths on
repairs of Phones, Laptops and other mobile devices. The training, which
is a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, will be held at the Slot
Academy and will benefit 40 youths selected from communities where Ikeja
Electric operates. The beneficiaries will be trained by experts in intensive
repair of phones, Laptops and other devices for the duration of 3 months when
they are expected to have acquired competent technical and entrepreneurial
skills to be able to set up a business venture. According to the
Head, Corporate Communications, Felix Ofulue, the initiative is targeted at
advancing the aspiration of youths by providing them with the opportunity of to
be self-reliant as well as empowering them for a better life. “As a responsible
corporate organization, we will continue to create platforms to empower the
youth in communities where we operate. Training of young and aspiring
entrepreneurs is part of our commitment to giving back to the society and means
of contributing to Nigeria’s economic growth with massive potential to generate
employment opportunities”, he explained. Ofulue also
described the partnership as advantageous, noting that Ikeja Electric is
delighted to be partnering Slot Systems to execute this initiative. In his words: “The
pedigree of Slot as a leading mobile device repair company in Nigeria, with years
of expertise in sales and services, will be of immense value to the
beneficiaries. The experienced facilitators provided by Slot Foundation will
take the trainees through basics on how they can effectively combine the
knowledge acquired from the training with a focus on becoming successful
entrepreneurs”. Speaking on the
initiative, Nnamdi Ezeigbo, Founder of SLOT Foundation and CEO of SLOT Systems
Limited, noted that SLOT academy is a vocational skill program that helps young
people to acquire GSM phone engineering expertise between 3 and 6 months. “Since inception, in
2001, the programme has trained over 1000 Nigerians in Mobile phone and Laptop
repairs and has also provided employment for about 60 percent of them. Every
Mobile phone technician in Nigeria must have acquired his technical skill
directly or indirectly from SLOT Academy and we plan to strengthen this
programme by taking the services to every state. Our present goal is to train
an additional 1,000 Persons between the years 2019 -2020” Ezeigbo said. He further
reiterated that the partnership with IE will greatly help in achieving this
target as he believes that skill acquisition is a better way to building an
entrepreneurial society Ikeja Electric has
been at the forefront of youth empowerment since inception, where its Personal
Corporate Social Responsibility (PCSR) initiative has touched many lives, through
the provision of medical outreaches and empowerment programmes, among others.