WorldStage Newsonline–  National Support For Atiku Mandate (NSFAM), a newly-formed group under the auspices of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation (APCO) has appealed to Nigerians to join the new path fashioned towards reclaiming the stolen mandate of the former vice-president and the Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The group equally described the just concluded presidential election as a daylight robbery that would not be allowed to survive and stand the test of time. Speaking during a press conference in Abuja, Convener of the group, Abraham Justice said it was obvious that Nigerians had witnessed the worst election in the history of the country. He added that “in the election there were not just voter suppression, violence and all sorts of electoral malpractice, but a blatant connivance between the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC) to deny Nigerians their rightful choice of the leader they trust and love who is Atiku Abubakar.” While appreciating Nigerians for supporting Atiku who refused to submit to the pleas and pressures from different quarters, and confidently approached the Tribunal to seek redress against the emotional rape, the group further restated that the judiciary will dispense justice accordingly to make the wish and will of the people prevail. “We will not fail to recognise the huge financial requirements and sacrifices to successfully prosecute these long and tedious post-election litigation. It is on this note that the National Support For Atiku Mandate is birthed with a singularity of purpose which is to partner Nigerians of goodwill to give His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar all needed support and encouragement to proceed and progress strongly towards retrieving the stolen mandate,,” he said. NSFAM also hinted about the launching of some platforms; website and relevant social media outlets to engage millions of Nigerians to pursue the agenda to the point of victory. A high-rank member of the group, Odih Rowland, who lend his voice during the conference said that, “We will not sleep. We won’t be discouraged intimidated. They stole what is rightful to us and we must reclaim it. We saw what happened in Lagos and other states; the oppression of voters. We are too sure Atiku will win the case. “The only man who can take Nigerians to the next level is Atiku. We believe in the judiciary and know that the needful will be done as we journey through the path of justice. The voice of the people was so glaring and we have evidence to prove all of these in court.”