WorldStage NewsOnline—-President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigeria has returned to the path of growth  with the nation’s economic diversification and social inclusion policies now yielding positive results. Buhari who disclosed this at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Jordan said the country was  making gains in the ease of doing business indices. “A key driver for growth is the agricultural sector where we aggressively pushed agricultural policies that empowered millions of our rural citizens. “In the spirit of “Building New Platforms of Cooperation”, we partnered with the Kingdom of Morocco to domesticate fertilizer production in Nigeria and revive over two million tons of abandoned fertilizer blending plant capacity. “The outcome is we created tens of thousands of jobs in agriculture, logistics, manufacturing and retail sectors. We are able to achieve moderate growth. But it was inclusive. “Nigeria is now at a new dawn and embarking on a new development trajectory,” he said. The President said Federal Government was determined to industrialise Nigeria by leveraging on its comparative advantage. “We recognize the private sector as the engine of growth and a veritable partner in our economic agenda. The Middle East is a natural partner,” he said. He urged countries in  Africa and the Middle East to focus on policies that will deliver shared economic prosperity for all their citizens. “On trade and investments for example, we can do more. Africa represents only five percent of Jordan’s trade with the world. But we have the resources, the people and the markets to do more. “Opportunities exist in key job creating sectors such as Agriculture, Health, Tourism, ICT, Infrastructure as well as Textile and garmenting to mention a few. “Our new, inclusive and diversified Nigeria is definitely open for business. Our population, resources, policies and programs make it the most attractive investment destination in Africa. “As friends and allies, we must therefore cooperate and leverage on our relative strengths. We must remain open to “Building New Platforms of Cooperation”. Buhari called on leaders present to reflect on their collective experiences and urged them to identify how they can work together. “Today, we are living in a new world. In this new world without borders, my personal view is stability and sustainability can only be achieved through inclusive economic growth, and enhanced cooperation amongst nations,” he said.