WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Inland Revenue Service, Chairman, Babatunde Fowler has confirmed that the consolidated tax data base for Nigeria should be operational before the end of first quarter of 2019, such that all tax payers in Nigeria both individuals and corporate will be able to be accessed anywhere in Nigeria by any tax administrator. Speaking in Abuja at the launching of the 2019 Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative, which is targeted at enhancing the enforcement expected to commence on January 31, 2019, he said the new initiatives were on course to ensure people do not take advantage of on updated tax laws or policy to beat the system, which is expected to be completed between 6 to 11 months. He said: “Expand tax identification numbers and expand tax data base, today we do have the consolidated tax data base that should be operation before the end of first quarter of 2019.” On VAID, he said “quite a number of people did not take advantage of the VAID opportunity, based on information from FIRS and the banks, those that have turnover of N1billion annually for three years and we found out that close to 6,000 businesses have not comply with the tax regulatory. “We went further from 1 billion to 1 trillion, and close to 75,000 businesses do not file or pay any taxes.” The comptroller General of the Nigeria Custom, Hameed Ali said the objective of the initiative was to improve collection and established new Custom revenue frame that will drive collection efficiency. He added that in 2017 Customs generated a total of N1.037 trillion, adding that the gain was based on effort by the customs to close loop holes to prevent smuggling which lead to an increase in revenue contribution into the federation account to N1.202 trillion in 2018, an increase of N169 billion. “One of the biggest loop holes in terms of revenue generation today is a result of smuggling and smuggling cannot be curtailed by Nigeria Customs alone, it will involve consortium of the entire enforcement agencies,” he said. On deployment of technology to aid revenue collection at the port, he said “one of the short coming is the lack of scanners at the strategic port, as a result of this we engaged in random examination and does not enhance the collection of revenue.” He said the Nigeria Custom will ensure the equipment are provided to improve revenues, adding that the customs is planning to introduce new duties and to enhance base of revenue collection. Meanwhile, the Federal Government said it will extend the Treasury Single Account (TSA) to all foreign mission aboard, to further boost it revenue collections. Minister of Finance Zainab Ahmed said the 2019 Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative had been broken into clear implement  portfolio so that each government ministries department agencies will owe this initiative and work towards achieving the target and improving our tax base and tax collection. She said: “We must strengthen the non-oil sector to protect us from the volatility of the oil price in the international market, this are externality that are beyond our controlled, so let us concentrate on grow revenues in the sectors that we have control. According to her, data will be collected from all revenue agencies, including CAC, FIRS, Customs, banks and several agencies related to tax, adding that the use of this data will be driven by an automation called Operation Light House, which is to be led by FIRS. The minister mandated the revenue generating agencies to own and implement the initiative “it is not the minister of finances portfolio is your portfolio. On the introduction of TSA to foreign mission, Accountant General of the Federation Ahmed Idris said “We have financial attaché in all the foreign mission, so there is no deployment of new staff in the cause of implementation of TSA’s. “We need to take censors of all the account of the missions, some missions have more than one of two account, we need to take censors and thirdly we need to engage competent consultant  even the domestic TSA is assisted by consultants.