The  newly appointed Executive Secretary , Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund),  Prof. Elias Bogoro,  has promised  to make the agency a reference point for other institutions to follow. In a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, Mr Benn Ebikwo, Director, Corporate Affairs, TETFund, said Bogoro made the pledge at a meeting with staff of the agency following his re-instatement by President Muhammadu Buhari. Bogoro was re-instated by Buhari as the Executive Secretary of TETFund on Jan. 21, 2019. He said that his re-instatement was unprecedented in the history of Nigeria and pledged to manage the agency to the point of its becoming a reference point for other institutions to follow. “I give God the glory for my unprecedented re-instatement in a way that never happened before. ” I do not know how to thank the president for giving me a medal that no Nigerian has attained before and I pledge to do everything to manage the Fund’s affairs very well. “I struggled with tears on Monday when I resumed and I am so proud of you all and may God bless you;
I will never forget your style of welcoming me because it has vindicated me. “Other organisations will learn how to run and manage human beings with respect.” Bogoro recalled that he was part of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) struggle led to the establishment of the Fund and ensuring that its mandate of focusing on public tertiary institutions was followed for maximum impact. “I never imagined that I will sit on the leadership of the institution we fought for through ASUU. “We insisted that TETFund be streamlined to intervene only in public tertiary institutions because government only intervenes where it will benefit the greater majority because according to National Universities Commission, private universities cater for only six per cent of students’ intake. ” He said that the Fund had been instrumental to restoring the glory of tertiary institutions in Nigeria through numerous interventions, such as infrastructure development, academic staff training and development, journal and book development. Bogoro said that his predecessors were instrumental to these innovative policies presently operating in the Fund. He emphasised that there was no excuse for substandard projects by the Fund, adding that only the best quality infrastructure would be sponsored by the Fund.