The Ondo State Government has renewed its  commitment towards reduction of maternal and child morbidity and mortality rate in the state.
Ondo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro  said this at a two-day stakeholders’ retreat on ‘Saving One Million Lives for Result’ (SOML) programme, on Tuesday in Akure.
The commissioner said that health concepts, especially maternal and child health indices were commonly used indicators for assessment of the socio-economic development and classification of nations.
He stated that there was need for the stakeholders’ retreat which was meant to form a common front in improving these indices.
He noted that Nigeria was the second worst nation in the world, after India, as regards the rate of mortality and disability from maternal and child health services.
According to him, one out of every 13 women that go into labour dies, and about one million children die annually before the age of five, due to deaths that can be prevented.
“SOML, in partnership with states, is put in place to reverse these unwholesome trend and improve specific maternal and child health indices in the country,” he said.
He commended stakeholders in the state for their contribution to the success of the programme.
He noted their efforts, particularly, as the state recently won an award for achievement across the Disbursement Linked Indicators, which earned the state close to two million US Dollars.
Adegbenro enjoined stakeholders not to relent but brainstorm and chart a way forward to elicit better performance and money for the state.
In his goodwill message, Mr Emmanuel Igbasan, the state Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, hailed the award and promised that every dollar would be judiciously utilised.
Mr Wale Akinterinwa, state Commissioner for Finance, said the maternal and child health indices in the country were really worrisome.
He promised to do all within his power to turn round the tide for the state, while requesting that such retreat should hold frequently.
Mrs Fola Fagbemi, the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, said local government councils would do everything to make primary healthcare more successful.