WorldStage Newsonline– Lagos State Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi -Etti, has said the state ran the risk of civil conflicts if churches and nite clubs continued to proliferate in metropolitan areas of the state. Etti, who raised the warning at a stakeholders’ meeting with the Victoria Island and Ikoyi Residents Association in Victoria Island, expressed worries over the rising number of religious worship centres in residential areas across the state. The commissioner said he had observed with dismay the proliferation of religious worship centres and nite clubs in various residential areas, especially on the Victoria Island and Ikoyi metropolis and called for caution on the noise level to avoid rancour in the society. The stakeholders’ meeting was convened to address various environmental issues in the area , including illegal conversion of personal structures to commercial structures. “Any noise above the approved noise levels contravened the provisions of the National Environmental Noise Standard and Controls regulations 2009 as well as the Lagos State Environmental Laws 2017,” he said. The commissioner called for cooperation of religious centres and club owners for the maintenance of the acceptable noise levels for residential areas, which he said should be 55 decibels during the day and 45 decibels at night. He said they were expected to operate in an enclosed and soundproof environment with regulated use of speakers, adding that the state government would not rest on its oars in ensuring that residents imbibe the habit of regular maintenance of their immediate environment “as doing so is a collective responsibility.” Durosinmi -Etti also urged residents to prioritise clean environment by being observant and protective of their immediate environment. He stated that the rate at which the highbrow areas were being defaced had become alarming , with illegal developments capable of causing grave danger to the community , adding that there should be strict adherence to Lagos State laws regarding waste management , noise pollution and approved master plan of government for the area . According to him, the situation where property owners in the area allow indiscriminate conversion of the residential areas to commercial use is not acceptable as it has seriously contributed to increase in refuse generation in the area as well as the attendant illegal dumping of refuse in unauthorized places. The commissioner said the government would remain committed to maintaining a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, and urged residents to do the same. He said some residents had continued to patronise cart pushers and dump refuse indiscriminately on the roads in spite several warnings on the environmental and health implications of such acts.