Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr. Alex A. Okoh has charged members of the Management Board of the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC) to shun personal and sectional interests in the discharge of their duties. Inaugurating the Board of the company headed by Mr. Gbeleyi Ayodeji on Wednesday, January 9, 2019, in Abuja, the DG reminded the members that they were trustees of the electric distribution company and as such they should exercise their powers with honesty and diligence. “As Directors, you are trustees of the company’s finances and properties which you must account for in the exercise of your duties with honesty for the interest of the company and the shareholders and not your own interests”, he warned. Okoh informed them that their responsibilities as directors of the company include: Responding on behalf of other members, the Chairman, Mr. Ayodeji Gbeleyi commended the government for the confidence reposed in them and pledged to discharge their duties diligently. Ayodeji expressed appreciation for his  appointed the  chairman of the Board and commended the Management of Yola Disco for successfully running the affairs the company since the management reverted to the Federal Government on June 1, 2015 from the core investor-Inegrated Energy Distribution & Marketing Limited (IEDM) as a result of the force majeure declared by IEDM due to insurgency  activities in the region. Members of the management board are Mr. Ayo Gbeleyi (Private member), Chairman, Mr. Alex Okoh, Director General, BPE, (representing the BPE), Mr. Mahmud Isa-Dutse (Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance,Mr. Louis O.N Edozien (Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power),Mrs. Grace Papka (Private member), Mr. Baba Umara Mustapha (MD/CEO, Yola DISCO); and Iliya John (Secretary). It would be recalled that the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) at its 6th meeting for 2018, held on December 16, 2018, charged the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) with the responsibility of inaugurating the Board of the Yola DISCO.