WorldStage Newsonline— Imo State chapter of United Progressive Party “UPP” Executives has cried out over what it described as anti-party and unfortunate behaviour of Hon. Tony Nwulu, the party governorship candidate in the state. In a communiqué signed by the state party excos after a meeting held recently in Owerri, the party BoT member, Prince Nkem Nwosu stated that Nwulu, the party flag bearer has been rejected by the party for failing to do what was right at the right time. The party expressed dissatisfaction with attitude of Nwulu to the party’s rules and regulations over the interest of ndigbo. It stated that Nwulu was playing politics of hide and seek but pretending he’s contesting election under the party where as he’s not. Nwosu said Nwulu had time without number been cautioned to desist from his obnoxious attitude and follow the party proceedings and structures in running the election with the support of the party but that he refused. He described the party as the only political party standing for Ndigbo interest, to defend the culture of every Igbo citizen but the that the candidate’s improper actions to the party and supporters have defaced the party structures and position to survive the 2019 general election. He frowned at Nwulu’s “Mezie Imo” slogan given by his hidden sponsors to replace the party nomenclature in a bid to destroy the party and achieve their selfish interest in the state. He argued that “Mezie Imo” was not supported by the party as an acronym. According to the communiqué, Nwulu has left to do the right thing at the right time, and has in his anti party posture been running the structure with the directives of his sponsors to suit their aim. “He has no charisma to lead the party; he has no structure, he’s very arrogant and has plans to dump the party beyond 2019 if he wins the election,” part of the communiqué reads. The party expressed regrets that despite that its grievances and the nasty style of the its gubernatorial candidate had been reported to the national leadership, nothing was done to that effect hence its decision to go public. “Nwulu as far as we know does not anymore call for meetings to address party issues and cannot keep to his promises. He’s a deceiver, and a candidate without vision to govern the state. He’s very rude and not qualified to rule the state,” the party added in the communiqué. The party called on him to go back to Oshodi/Isolo Federal House of Representatives where he said he could do well to those that elected him. The party also accused Nwulu for robbing the party structure of the man who was capable of running election for the party by painting him black. “UPP has no candidate in the state, Chief Chekwas Okorie should call him to order to avoid further mistakes in the party because the party will continue to lose grip if nothing is done,” said the party in the communique. The party supporters were advised to remain calm but withdraw their support for Nwulu because of anti-party activities. Among those that attended the meeting, according to the statement, were the State Organizing Sec Iheanyichukwu Nwaturuocha; Sylvester Asozerem Mbaitoli LGA Chairman; State Secretary of the party Nwaneri ThankGod; Elder Felix Eziefula, Isu L.G.A Chairman; Hon. Eugene Ebo Ehime, Mbano L.G.A, Legal Adviser Barr. Nene Madu; and party BoT member, Prince Nkem Nwosu.