WorldStage Newsonline—The main opposition political party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is livid with anger over what a party source described as a determined plan by President Muhammadu Buhari to cripple the party campaign efforts and consequently the chances of its presidential flag-bearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The party source, who preferred anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the issue, spoke to our correspondent today on phone over the seeming slow and unusual electioneering campaign proceedings by the party. According to the source, the deliberate witch-haunt being mounted by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) against opposition elements has driven many prospective political sympathizers of Atiku from extending their hands of financial support. The source said the party had indeed advised his key followers and willing financiers to put a hold on their intention of financial support to avoid Buhari’s hammer and trumped up corruption charges against them. PDP, according to the source, is aware of the noose the federal government has tightened around the neck of those who are willing and ready to bring their money into the pursuit of Atiku’s presidential ambition by setting loose its anti-corruption agencies against them should they attempt to do so. The source said that explained why Atiku’s campaign had not been seen as overwhelming and electrifying as they expected. The source however maintained that contrary to that perception, the PDP presidential candidate had been storming states across the country with his campaign trains and was being overwhelmingly received and supported. The source added that notwithstanding APC’s frustrating acts, PDP was having no problem at all in delivering on its campaign requirements and activities. On observation that governors and the who’s who in the party have not been visible in Atiku’s campaigns, the source said it wasn’t true, explaining that if he went to campaign in APC state, it was expected that it’s the PDP governorship candidate in that state rather than the state governor that would attend such campaign. The source maintained that a check on all Atiku’s electioneering outings so far would show that his efforts have been widespread and generally keyed into. “There’s no stopping the momentum, PDP is the party to beat,” the source boasted.