The Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) Ikorodu on Friday confirmed the dismissal of four of its non-academic workers. The Chairman of the LASPOTECH Chapter of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (NASUP), Mr Akinlawon Fasasi, is among those dismissed. The Spokesman of the polytechnic, Mr Olanrewaju Kuye, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in an interview in Lagos that the affected workers were dismissed for allegedly disrupting activities on campus. On Jan. 21, members of the LASPOTECH Chapter of NASUP, embarked on continuous protests to demand the reversal of an alleged de-migration of their salary structure by the institution’s management. Members of the union, supported by other sister unions, including the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) and the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics (SSANIP) matched around the campus in their hundreds chanting solidarity songs. They carried placards with inscriptions: “No to De-migration”, “Sogunro uses Ambode to disrupt LASPOTECH. No to strangulation of unions,” among other allegations. The workers shut major offices in the institution and disconnected facilities, including electricity and water. Kuye named other sacked workers as Mrs Bisola Afolabi of the examination and records department, Mrs Omowunmi Adebisi, Secretary of NASUP and Mrs Muinat Ogunbambi-Ibrahim of the registry department. He said that the sacked workers had been terrorising the campus under the guise of CONTISS 15 Migration. “The management states unequivocally that no staff of the polytechnic is being demoted as claimed by some individuals. “The polytechnic migrated deserving staff and placed them appropriately, in line with the policy guideline of the National Board of Technical Education (NBTE) that was adopted by the Lagos State Government. “Management of the polytechnic, through various fora, engaged the entire members of staff on the implementation of the CONTISS 15 Migration,” he said. According to Kuye, the perennial disruptions by the unionists has created instability, trauma and unnecessary panic for the polytechnic community. The spokesman said that despite efforts by the governing council and management in ensuring peace and stability on its campus, a handful of members of staff had refused to comport themselves within the rules and regulations guiding staff of the polytechnic. He said that the sacked workers had constantly engaged in thuggry and threatening other law-abiding workers with charms and weapons if they refused to join them in their protest. “In the course of the unethical conduct, these rampaging members of staff caused the following havocs: indiscriminate beating, intimidation and harassment of staff with diabolical cane. “Damage of one of the doors in the bursary department. Taking hostages of principal officers and some members of staff in the library complex while the source of power supply was disconnected. “Utterances of numerous hate speeches directed at principal officers of the polytechnic, members of the governing council and disruption of the maiden meeting of heads of state-owned tertiary institutions, among others.