WorldStage Newsonline– Ahead of the 2019 elections, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Muhammed Monguno has said that the Federal Government will demonstrate zero tolerance to political thuggery and illegal bearing of fire arms. Speaking on Tuesday in Abuja at the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Monguno said recent intelligence reports indicated plans by some unnamed individuals and groups to instigate violence during the election. He said the IGP had instructed the various police commands to arrest anyone bearing fire arms illegally or engaging in acts of violence. He said “some individuals who are uncertain of their fate in the elections are plotting to precipitate widespread violence aimed at scuttling the conduct of the polls.” According to him their strategy was to cause crisis that could snowball into endless crises for the government and citizens. Monguno however refrained from specifying some plots that had been uncovered  but assured that  security agencies would spare no efforts in dealing appropriately with any action that can destabilize  the nation and paint it collectively in a bad light among the comity of states. He said: “There are indications that these unscrupulous elements are already mobilising merchants of violence, including armed bandits and terrorists to orchestrate violence during the sections in several states of the federation. “No individual or group is greater or more important than Nigeria. Accordingly, no individual or groups ambition is worth the loss of life of any Nigerian or national cohesion. In this regard, we owe Nigerians the duty to protect and preserve their lives and property regardless if our individual or group aspirations.” The Security Adviser further warned that no pseudo or quasi security outfits such as vigilantes or under any guise would be allowed to participate in election security duties. He also charged all governors at the forum to uphold their primary function constitutionally in the security and welfare of the people. The chairman, NGF, Governor Abdual’aziz Yari said the governors were concerned over the proliferation of arms and ammunition and the spate of kidnapping crises in the country. He noted that the forum had recommended stronger collaboration and intelligence sharing amongst security agencies in the country to ensure that all lives and property were protected regardless of individual, group or affiliation. Yari further explained that all members of the forum were committed to collaborate with all security agencies to deliver free and fair elections and in an environment conducive for peaceful elections. The Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu assured that all police personnel are neutral and apolitical and that the force personnel are working hard to mop up illegal fire arms ahead of the elections.