By Olawole Olakunle ‘MKO– I initially would have started with dear NANS, but it takes no amount of intelligence to know that there is nothing “dear” about you and your cronies. When I saw NDI KATO’s tweet this morning in regards to the abominable act you perpetrated at the presidential villa while selling out the over 80 million Nigerian students you claim to be their leader, my heart froze into cold ice! But then i would just lay the fact bare and i would allow history look down on me, either positively or negatively. I trust posterity is non-partisan! At a particular point in Nigeria’s history when partisanship and a democratic environment was the greatest highlight of that political class, if you are all not too mentally slopid as I believe you are; you would have read in history how the student mobilization strength against state vice and government’s anti-people policy made NANS the unregistered political party of the downtrodden masses and the pillar of support to the struggles and ordeals of the average Nigerian student. Fast forward 20 years after, and I weep Oh lawd! I weep! For starters, perhaps if President Buhari is as gullible as he looks, we are not as foolish as you believe we are, I dare you to mobilize 5,000 youths for Buhari including all the come and raid you call comrades in your demonic association. Futhermore, it is no longer alarming that 90% of young Nigerians who came out to #OccupyNaija in 2012 are either part of this government as aides, fencist, or tweeting about Arsenal somewhere in the UK at a time the most important asset a nation can give to her developing generation is under siege. Although, I doubt if you or your cronies ever had any level of education different from general literacy, maybe you should take a cue from what education really is here Finally, Nigeria characterized by poverty, grief, perjury, terrorism, lack of economic foresight, lack of electricity, quality education, intellectual drought and perpetual hunger has been polarized to either Join us and be fed or speak the truth and experience untold hardship. Some of us will stand with the truth irrespective of the consequences, we will tarry because there is hope for a bright morning ahead. Your latest action is the straw that broke the camel’s back of any iota of integrity associated with NANS, at a time when your 80 million students are in great need of you, after staying at home for six months, you sold out their future! Recall that when police brutality was meted on same Nigerian students you were off this galaxy. It would really be pathetic and posterity would clamor if we don’t make you know that you have been our generation’s biggest regret, by promising someone who almost scrapped NANS and student lawful protest in the 80’s 20million Nigerian students Vote. Tueh! Like my mum would say *Olawole Olakunle ‘MKO is the National Youth Leader, KOWA PARTY, Columnist at Yourcommonwealth.org; Call\whatsapp +2349057443581 | Twitter: @mko_olawole