Ambassador of Switzerland to Nigeria, Mr. George Steiner on Wednesday in Abuja said Lagos State with its huge market size provides a very good attraction for foreign investments. The envoy made the declaration during a strategic visit to his office at the Swiss Embassy in Abuja by Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress. Mr. Steiner who noted that Switzerland as one of the leading countries in the world with the best financial service industry and strong tourism economy also added that top Swiss companies operating in Nigeria have their headquarters in Lagos. He promised to work with Mr. Sanwo-Olu if elected as the governor to attract more Swiss investments to the state whilst he commended the APC candidate for his THEME development agenda. “Lagos is a natural point of attraction for investment because of market size. If you won your election we will partner with you to improve quality of lives in Lagos with increased investments from Swiss companies. Our country and Nigeria enjoy very good bilateral relationship. With Lagos as the commercial centre of Nigeria we will strengthen that relationship. I have listened to you on your THEME priority programmes and I believe, if well implemented it will bring greater good to Lagos.” he said. While expressing his appreciation to the Ambassador for Swiss government commitment to Nigeria and promise to work with Lagos State, Mr. Sanwo-Olu reiterated his campaign message of a greater Lagos and his commitment to ensure the private sector will remain a major driver of economic development. “Our campaign is hinged on a comprehensive development agenda  which we tagged THEME, Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and environment, Education and technology, Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy and Entertainment and Tourism. The role of private sector investments is critical to our agenda. We welcome more investments from Swiss companies and I can assure that they will have a worthy partner in the government and people of Lagos.”