WorldStage Newsonline — The Federal Government of Nigeria on Monday cautioned representatives of foreign countries and organisations resident in the country against interfering in Nigeria’s internal affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs which gave the warning in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Mr George Edokpa, expressed deep concern on statements made by the U.S Embassy, UK High Commission and European Union Election Observer Mission, regarding the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter  Onnoghen. According to the ministry, the action demonstrated serious and unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of Nigeria. “The various statements, especially of those referred to above, appear prejudicial and signify alignment with the opposition and endorsement of its position that the ruling party. “And, by extension the Federal Government of Nigeria, is working on rigging the forthcoming elections in Nigeria. “These statements also portend tolerance for corrupt acts and downplay the anti-corruption crusade of the Buhari Administration, knowing fully that the suspended CJN had not denied the charges against him. “Also, probity requires of him to step aside while the case is under scrutiny,” it stated. According to the Ministry, it is pertinent to underscore the unfortunate fact that statements, as referred above, are inimical to the well-being and development of Nigeria. “Given their nuisance value of promoting sectional and religious divide in the country, anarchy and retrogression. “Now, more than any other time, Nigerians and true friends of Nigeria should be working toward repositioning Nigeria to realise her potential and sustainably provide the leadership expected of her,” it stated. The ministry noted that President Muhammadu Buhari had consistently demonstrated respect for the rule of law as a presidential candidate and as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and would engage in nothing to the contrary. “He remains a man of integrity, who has severally pledged free and fair elections. “It is therefore absurd to presume that the suspension of the CJN is geared towards rigging the forthcoming elections in favour of the ruling party. “For the avoidance of doubt, be it known that on three occasions that Mr. President went to court, as a presidential candidate and lost his case, in 2013, 2011 and 2007. “The presiding judges at the Supreme Court were all northerners and Muslims: Justice Muhammad Lawal Uwais, Idris Lebo Kutigi and Dahiru Mustapha respectively,” it stated. It noted that in one instance, the presiding judge at the Appeal Court was from Katsina State and the President’s former classmate, yet, he lost the case. “The minority judgments in his favour were given by two judges, both of them southerners and Christians: Justices George Adesola Oguntade and Sylvanus Nsofor. “ Resident Embassies and International Organisations invited to observe the forthcoming elections should be wary of being drawn into the camp of the opposition. “Otherwise their neutrality, which is the hallmark of election observers becomes questionable. “It is indeed unfortunate that foreign missions would align with the opposition and seek to negatively interpret actions by the Federal Government, no matter their positive basis and intention,” it added. The ministry noted that had the Federal Government been high-handed, would the opposition have been able to express its views, even to the point of pouring invectives on Mr. President? “How best can the corruption in the judiciary, which has enormously undermined the rights of the common man and made justice available only to the highest bidder, be best tackled than by ensuring that known cases are fundamentally tackled? “Where is the rule of law, if justice is applied selectively? “Pertinent questions that the opposition and their sympathisers must reflect upon are: How has the action of Mr. President undermined the resolve for free and fair election? “In what ways does it undermine the independence of the Judiciary, except in the minds of the opposition and its cohorts? “What right has a representative of a foreign government to incense an already volatile situation on the grounds that her Government has invested heavily in the elections?,” it stated. According to the ministry, it is insulting for any foreign representative to claim the right to interference in Nigeria’s internal affairs, based on the premise that its government has invested heavily in the election. The ministry said that Nigeria had invested enormously, over the years, in election processes of many African countries, and will continue to do so without interfering in their internal affairs. “Interference in Nigeria’s internal affairs under any guise will therefore not be accepted. “Representatives of foreign Governments and organisations are therefore advised to tread with caution and desist from using the utterances and actions of opposition organisations and individuals as a vehicle to interfere in Nigeria’s internal affairs. “Embassies and organisations  accredited to Nigeria should desist from actions and utterances that can only create political, sectional and religious crises and divides,” the ministry warned.