Benue State Governor, Mr. Samuel Ortom, has lauded the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) for the good welfare package it has put in place for its workers. In a funeral oration at the burial of a staff of the Bureau, Ms. Sewuese Betsie Igbadu, who passed on recently in Nairobi, Kenya, Ortom said he observed with keen interest how the management of the Bureau stood by the deceased during her medical treatment in Nigeria and abroad until her demise. The Governor who was represented by his Special Adviser on Diaspora Affairs, Pastor Joe Ichull, gave the commendation on Monday, January 14, 2019 at Tse-Igbadu Compound, Mbaabunde-Lessel, Ushongo Local Government Area of Benue State where the deceased’s remains were interred. He said it was gratifying that despite her ill- health, the Bureau considered it appropriate and honoured the deceased with an award during the Dinner/Award Night organised by the BPE to mark the 30th anniversary of Reforms, Commercialisation and privatisation in Nigeria. “Even in death, the Bureau has stood by her by making the burial a success and sending a high-powered delegation to pay her last respects. This is encouraging and I commend the BPE for this”, he added. Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr. Alex A. Okoh, in his condolence message to the family said the Bureau received the news of the death of the deceased with great shock and shared with the entire family the sorrowful moment. Okoh, who was represented at the burial by the Director, Post Transaction Management Department, Mallam Ibrahim Babagana, said the late Sewuese Igbadu was a staff par excellence who discharged her duties in the Bureau with utmost responsibility, trust, the fear of God and was loved by all. According to the Director General, though she would be missed by all, the consolation is that she lived an exemplary life worthy of emulation and that her good works shall remain a source of inspiration. Okoh noted that the deceased in her lifetime cared for the less-privileged and that was why she single-handedly set up a school in her village for abandoned children and those from poor homes. He said the school should not be allowed to die with her and appealed to corporate bodies and public spirited individuals to contribute for its sustenance.