Dr Oby Ezekwesili, Presidential Candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) has stepped down from the Feb. 16 presidential election. Ezekwesili, in a statement by the spokesman of her Hope “19 Campaign Organisation, Mr Ozioma Ubabukoh, announced her withdrawal early Thursday morning. She explained that she stepped down from the Feb. 16 presidential election after due consultations with well-meaning Nigerians both at home and in the diaspora. Ezekwesili added that she decided to withdraw in order to help to build a coalition to defeat the All Progressives Congress(APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) in the election. According to her, the action is also prompted by an examination of the country’s electoral environment sequel to the 2019 Presidential debate of Saturday, Jan. 19. “This decision followed extensive consultations with leaders from various walks of life across the country over the past few days. I deem it necessary for me to focus on helping to build a veritable coalition to ensure a viable alternative to the #APCPDP in the forthcoming elections. “It is my ardent belief that this broad coalition for a viable alternative has now become more than ever before, an urgent mission for and on behalf of Nigerian citizens. “I have, therefore, chosen to lead the way in demonstrating the much needed patriotic sacrifice for our national revival and redirection. “I wish to state that over the past three months, I have been in private, but extended talks with other candidates to birth a coalition that would allow Nigerians to exercise their choice without feeling helplessly encumbered by the evil twins of #APCPDP. “While the deliberations continued, I never hesitated for a moment in my willingness and determination to sacrifice my candidacy in order to facilitate the emergence of the envisaged strong and viable alternative that Nigerians could identify with in our collective search for a new beginning. “My commitment to this promising political recalibration has been consistent and in consonance with my agreement, at the request of candidates under the Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT) arrangement in 2018, when I consented to supervise the internal selection process as an outside observer passionate about building an alternative force. “However, despite resistance from the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria on these and other issues, I have decided that it is now necessary to show by action and example my determination on this issue by stepping down my candidacy so as to focus squarely on building the coalition to a logical conclusion. “We have no right to allow citizens give in to despair. We will #Fight4Naija together and prove to all that the mess, which the political class has now become, should not be allowed to destroy our spirits and nation.