The forthrightness and sincerity of the Buhari government is not in doubt and Nigerians should stand with this administration in the coming elections, according to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN. Prof. Osinbajo stated this over the weekend during his visits to Igbeti, Igboho, Kisi, and Saki, in the Oke-Ogun areas of Oyo State, where he was given rousing receptions by huge crowds at different stops. The Vice President further said that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari is a government for the poor and common man who lives in every local government area of the country. According to him, “all the Social Investment Programmes of the Buhari administration is to empower the common man and the poor.” Speaking to the excited crowd at Igbeti town during a campaign rally/street chats on Friday, Prof. Osinbajo said the TraderMoni, MarketMoni and the N-Power programmes are designed to take the common people out of poverty.” “The TraderMoni is to empower the small, small traders, it is not for big business. Those in big businesses have their own, which is called the MarketMoni. We want to reach every village so that the people here will also benefit from this government, all of us will be going up, up, up,” the VP emphasized. He assured that hardworking people like artisans e.g tailors will be assisted with money to enhance their businesses, adding, “even those   who are not graduates, but can read and write will be given a stipend monthly like those in the N-Power programme.” Singing a campaign song which he composed in Yoruba, “Up, up, we are going, up, up we are going,” the VP enjoined the people to join hands with the government whose leaders will use the money meant for the masses to work for them and should not allow those leaders who will be stealing people’s money to return. “We have been able to do more with less resources,” Prof. Osinbajo added. On his courtesy visit to the Paramount ruler (Onigbeti) of Igbeti Land, Oba Emmanuel Oyekan Oyebisi, Ofasegbejo III of Igbetiland, Prof. Osinbajo, commended the Oba and thanked him for a warm welcome. Earlier, the Oba commended the Social Investment Programmes of the Buhari administration, describing it as the people’s programmes, and requested for the development of natural resources such as different types of marbles available in the town for the betterment of not only the indigenes but the country at large. While assuring the Oba that his requests would be looked into, the VP said, “Kabiyesi, this coming election is for progress, we have already seen it but if we are not cautious we may be drawn back, but God forbid it.” Following his visit to Igbeti town, Vice President Osinbajo also went to Kisi, the headquarters of Irepo Local Government Area of Oyo State, where he was received by a mammoth and excited crowd. Prof. Osinbajo urged them to stand with the government in the coming elections. On Saturday, on his visit to Saki Local Government Area, the Vice President also received a rousing welcome by huge crowds at different stops. On arrival, Prof. Osinbajo paid a courtesy call to the Bagii of Saki, High Chief Abdrasheed Gazali Adegoke, where he met with traditional rulers in the area, who commended him for being “a great Vice President.” They noted that the Buhari administration deserves a second term for its efforts in improving the welfare of Nigerians. Also, in continuation of the Family Chats, Prof. Osinbajo on Saturday visited the families of Alhaji Ganiyu Akere and Mr. & Mrs Sunday Kolajo, in Saki, Oyo State. At Saki, the Vice President addressed rallies where he emphasized the Social Investment Programme and the Next Level plan of the Buhari administration. He noted that one of the plans include the establishment of the People’s Moni Bank that would give soft loans to Nigerians. Prof. Osinbajo added that the people of Oke-Ogun have seen the good thing that has happened to them within this short time. He noted that the Minister of Communication, Barr. Adebayo Shitu who accompanied him on the visits was from Oke-Ogun. Continuing, he also assured the Saki people that their request for potable water, road infrastructure and power would be looked into, as the Buhari government would continue in its efforts to improve the lives of all Nigerians. He assured that the people would benefit from the Trans-border International Market since Saki shares border with Republic of Benin and Togo. At the Sango area, also in Saki, the Vice President addressed a huge crowd of people in the predominantly Hausa community, where he, again, assured them of President Buhari’s concern for the poor. He said, “the next level of change is to lift everyone from poverty and provide more infrastructural development.” The people of Saki pledge their unalloyed support for the re-election of President Buhari in the forthcoming presidential election, noted Barr. Abdulwaheed Lawal who spoke on behalf of APC, in Saki. Lawal added that the people would support the Buhari administration’s Next Level agenda. Earlier in the day, Prof. Osinbajo had attended the wedding ceremony of the son of the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, in Ibadan, while he also interacted with the League of Imams and Alfas, also in Ibadan, before he proceeded to Saki Local Government, wrapping up a two-day focus on the Oke-Ogun areas of Oyo State.