The Ekiti State Government has distributed free JAMB forms to 3,000 qualified but vulnerable youths and out of school youths across the sixteen local government areas of the State. Flagging off the distribution of the forms to the beneficiaries on Friday, Wife of the Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, said the present administration will continue to prioritize the education of Ekiti Youth for national development. According to the Wife of the Governor, beneficiaries were chosen having obtained a minimum of six credit passes in either WAEC and NECO at one sitting. Speaking at the event, Erelu Fayemi said this kind gesture of the present administration will benefit the youths in securing their future since they are the leaders of tomorrow. “This is a commitment of Governor Kayode Fayemi towards extending the dividend of democracy to our teeming youths and actualization of his knowledge economy agenda.” “This singular act, if effectively utilised would permanently liberate the candidates from the shackles of ignorance, abject poverty and backwardness in life,” she explained. She however assured that the present administration would leave no stone unturned in preparing the future leaders of Ekiti with requisite qualification to enable them to improve upon the solid foundation that the present government is laying upon. The Wife of the Governor told the audience that twenty million naira had been committed to the purchase of 2019 JAMB PINS as well as the creation of a profile, provision of  E-Training, JAMB online registration and thumbprinting exercise at no cost to the candidate. Erelu Fayemi urged the beneficiaries to reciprocate the gesture by being committed to their studies and desist from act capable of truncating their future. Earlier the permanent secretary Ministry of Education, Science and Technology Mr. Ayodeji Ajayi said the gesture will in no small measure relieve parents who are struggling to make ends meet from the financial burden of providing JAMB pins for their wards. He advised beneficiaries of the programme to attend the training provided by the government and maximize the opportunity to acquire more knowledge. The highpoint of the event was the presentation of JAMB scratch cards to some selected candidates by the wife of the Governor. Some of the beneficiaries lauded the state government for the kind gesture with a promise to be more committed to their studies.