WorldStage Newsonline– As part of moves toward achieving 80 per cent National Financial Inclusion by 2020, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the National Financial Inclusion Stakeholder, on Thursday in Abuja unveiled the National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS 2.0); the Financial Literacy Framework; the Consumer Protection Framework and the Consumer Education framework. Speaking at the unveiling of the documents, the CBN, governor, Godwin Emefiele charged financial inclusion stakeholders to do more from the past success. Represented by the Deputy Governor, Financial System stability, Mrs. Aishah Ahmad, the governor noted that building inclusive system that became financial system had become an objective for policy makers around the world, giving the polity effect that financial inclusion had on poverty reduction and enhancing economy prosperity. He said, “Indeed the conference theme implementing financial literacy and consumer potential to advance financial network in Nigeria couldn’t be more unambiguous, it focus on in urgency to move from the conceptual to the practical in the drive for our result. “In 2012 we launch the national financial inclusion strategy and we gave ourselves a target of 20% inclusion rate by 2020, the latest Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA) report put us at about 38.6% of eligible adult who do not have access to financial services, this is down to the 1.6% which we recorded. “It is an encouraging improvement, however, we have work to do if we are to achieve the target 80% by 2020, the Revised National Financial Inclusion Strategy, identify consumer protection and the pillar of consumer protection which is consumer education to achieve the objective.” He stressed on the low financial awareness and literacy level in the country, adding that there were discussions on improving consumer confidence which “these remain issues we are to look closely if we are to meet our financial inclusion strategy.” He pointed out that the financial system had been most affected by the technological change across sectors, saying, “in 2017 the banking sector has about N1.4billion in electronic transaction valued at N97.4trillion as against N869million valued at N69triilion in 2016. These are good development and good for the financial system.” The CBN boss also identified part of the challenges as privacy and security concerns and exposure to fraudulent practice that must be conscious about. In its effort to attain the 80% financial inclusion target by 2020, Jaize Bank Managing Director, Hassan Usman, said the bank was doing more on it part of policy thrust of the government. He said: “We have been in all the processes, to do agency banking by using technologies, in addition we are running a pilot in Katsina State were we interact with the women entrepreneurs that are into petty  business. “We are going there to empower them with small credit so that in return they will now generate wealth and deposit will come at the end, but at this stage what we are trying to do is to empower these women both in the villages and in the cities so that they can get finance to develop their business.” According to the CBN, the conference was also aimed to ensure that new comers into the financial inclusion bracket were adequately protected and educated in line with the provisions of the policy documents. Meanwhile, other objectives of the two-day conference include to update participants on the growing sophistication of the financial market, the competitive environment in which financial services providers operate, and the benefit and value of providing access to financial services among others. While hoping to enhance consumer confidence and trust in the financial services to facilitate progress towards achieving 80% financial inclusion target by 2020, the CBN and other stakeholders also seeking to obtain customer feedback on how best to implement the financial inclusion policies.