For its invaluable contribution towards the deepening of Nigeria’s broadcasting industry, TVC News, a member of TVC Communications, has bagged the NBC Prize for the “Best Television Station of the Year” at the 26th Nigerian Media Merit Awards (NMMA). To clinch the award, TVC News beat a strong field of competitors, riding on the back of its highly acclaimed professionalism, innovation and customer-centricity. At the awards ceremony, which held at the Federal Palace Hotel in Lagos recently, Prof. Ralph Akinfeleye, Chairman, Panel of Assessors, Nigeria Media Merit Awards, noted that competition in the category was tough. His words: “This year, we had difficulty in picking winners in the Newspaper of the Year, Editor of the Year, Radio of the Year and Television of the Year categories. The scores were too close for comfort. The differences between the winners in the categories were marginal.” The Nigeria Media Merit Award is the foremost media excellenceaward and also the most prestigious annual celebration of the best in the Nigerian media industry. The award ceremony attracteda huge audience ofjournalists, media and PR practitioners from traditional and new media platforms. The Director of News, TVC News, Stella Din-Jacob, who received the award on behalf of TVC Communicationsaid: “We are delighted tobe awarded the winner for the Best Television Station of the Year.Having our hard work recognized is a big motivation to work harderand would serve asthe tonic that we need to prove to Nigerians that we are both dynamic and innovative. Going forward, we will step up the tempo to ensure such laurels become a second nature to us. What we did this year, we need to do better because we are only as good as our last performance”. TVC Communications CEO, Andrew Hanlon said the recognition bestowed on TVC News will further stimulate us to bring our news service to even greater heights in 2019as we continue a major programme of investment and renewal in the channel. We will shortly unveil a fresh, new, contemporary look to the TVC News service to assist us in our pursuit of becoming Nigeria’s most watched and trusted source of news. TVC News is highly honored to have received the award.Our dynamic news team is excited to continuously provide consistent and reliable news to our viewers.