Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Friday unveiled their development agenda for the state ahead of the March 2nd gubernatorial election. Tagged project THEME, five pillars of development will focus on traffic and transportation, health and the environment, education and technology, making Lagos a 21st century economy, as well as entertainment and tourism, among other issues. Unfolding their plans, both Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat who jointly spoke to a cross section of audience at a private event centre in the capital of the State, said project THEME as a strategy was conceived after wide consultations with all stakeholders on the challenges and the future Lagos state. “We didn’t just prepare the THEME documents in our bedrooms or in one hotel or inside a board room. The documents came from our numerous engagements with the people of Lagos State, telling us what their needs are and the immediate intervention they require on any challenge”, Sanwo-Olu stated. While unveiling of “A Vision for a Greater Lagos,” which was attended by the party leaders, captains of industry, artisans and supporters, Sanwo-Olu further stated that he and his deputy are convinced that in spite of many achievements in governance of Lagos since 1999, there is still much to be done to fully realise the potentials of the State. Speaking on Traffic Management and Transportation, the APC standard bearer said he has identified about 60 traffic gridlocks in the state and that gridlock red spots in some parts of the state such as Third Mainland Bridge and Lekki-Ikoyi/Admiralty Way and Lekki Toll Plaza, among others will be resolved within nine months of his administration, saying “we promised to implement a more effective public transport system, reactivate the rail system, extend water transport services, expand and improve network of roads”, he assured. On Health and Environment, Sanwo-Olu promised to ensure the presence of minimum of three doctors, three nurses and five community health workers in all 354 Primary Health Centre (PHCs) by 2021 and provide 10 new PHCs for riverine and other underserved areas, adding that his government would optimize waste management, improve drainage and disposal of wastewater across the metropolis. Speaking on “Making Lagos a 21stCentury Economy,” the APC Gubernatorial candidate said the administration will create a conducive business environment to attract investments and industries, support the growth of the local economy, empower the workforce using local talent to drive job and wealth creation, encourage youth development and provide support for key economic sectors like agriculture, housing and security. Sanwo-Olu’s running mate, Dr. Hamzat, while speaking on the plan for Education and Technology said the incoming administration will introduce measures to address three broad issues, namely: students, teachers and school infrastructure, adding that government will invest heavily in developing a strong pool of talented and well-trained young people to drive economic development. “We want to assure Lagosians that there would be increase budgetary allocation for education from 12.07 per cent to 18 per cent during the tenure of our administration if we win the election. Besides, the state government will collaborate with industry, Federal government and academia to update the education curriculum to reflect current and future industry needs. As for the Entertainment and Tourism sectors, Hamzat said the administration’s desire is to make Lagos the foremost entertainment and tourism destination in Africa. “As such, our government will work with stakeholders to facilitate the creation of a fully equipped and functional film city that will include an academy to encourage skills training”, he said, adding that their administration will develop sports as a viable economic platform with the introduction of a new sport policy. ” We will galvanise grassroots participation in sport and revive periodic community sports competition, street sports championship and community shield periodically to promote wellness, community spirit and generate employment”. The event ended with official presentation of the candidates and their development agenda to the audience by former senator of Lagos West Senatorial District, Mr. Ganiyu Solomon.