Nigeria’s President,  Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday called on Nigerians to expose corrupt people in his government by coming up with strong   evidence to ensure prosecution. The president gave the challenge at a town hall meeting tagged: ‘The Candidates’ organised by the MacArthur Foundation, in collaboration with NTA and DARIA Media in Abuja on Wednesday night. President Buhari was fielding questions on the allegations that the government’s anti-corruption crusade was skewed against a section of Nigerians, and that members of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) with questionable credentials were being protected by the government. The Moderator of the programme Kadaria Ahmed, specifically cited the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation Babachir Lawal, who was relieved of his appointment over allegations of corrupt practices, but was not prosecuted, instead he had been seen campaigning for the president. However, President Buhari said: “That is not fair criticism of the government. I do not think there is anybody that is being pointed out as corrupt in this dispensation which we looked the other direction. “I told you why I have to be careful; the public should help us, if there are strong allegations that are backed up with evidences, bank accounts, names of companies floated and contracts awarded. “Then we will take them before the courts through the EFCC and ICPC; and we have to trust the system and allow them to complete investigation. “If we just take people in as we did during the military and lock them up, the present democracy a multi party democracy does not approve of that. “If you accuse any person, you have to provide evidence in court for him to be prosecuted. So, if there is strong allegations, the government may decide to ask people to go, like in the case of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, we asked him to go. “The matter is already before the EFCC and I believe that a directive has been issued to charge him and all persons who have cases before the EFCC.’’