WorldStage Newsonline– Minister of Transport and Director-General of President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election campaign organisation, Rotimi Amaechi, disappointed many today at the inauguration of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) in Abuja as he chose to asked Nigerians not to give one vote to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 elections than react to audio recording in which he purportedly attacked his principal, President Muhammadu Buhari. Amaechi, in an audio recording released on Sunday by the opposition PDP, was alleged to have said Nigerians were hungry and poverty had been growing under President Buhari. But speaking at the inauguration, Amaechi assured Nigerians that the president’s next four years would be different from the 16 years of the PDP. He said at the event: “I was in the PDP, the slogan was “Share the money”. But here we are not sharing money. And because we are not sharing money they are saying vote buying. Because they ran election with government money, eating, buying cars with government money and nobody cared. “I appeal to Nigerians; don’t give one vote to the PDP, they are hungry, they can’t stand poverty, they can’t stand not touching government money. Where money is given for prayers in Nigeria, I can pray in my church, nobody is giving me money to go and pray.” He also said the PDP would not have peace until its members returned all the funds stolen while they were in office for 16 years. Amaechi continued: ”We are no longer stealing money. PDP stole the money meant to feed Nigerians and until they return it, they will not have peace. “PDP has nothing to say to Nigerians. Our campaign is going to be issues based. We are determined to save Nigerians. “The President said he will fight corruption; that he is doing. We met a tattered economy that if we did nothing, Nigeria would be at a mess. But today the economy has been growing. “In fixing the economy we promised infrastructural development. When I took over as Minister of Transportation, GE approached me and said we have approached different governments for 11 years to allow us to take over the rail with our own money but nobody agreed, this government agreed.” The transport minister told the gathering that before March this year, his ministry would sign a formal agreement of concession to a consortium that will take over Nigeria’s entire narrow gauge rail line and run it. On why Nigerians should re-elect Buhari, Amaechi said the change promised by the APC cannot be completed in four years. ”Anybody that says we can do so in four years must be a magician. What we are pleading with Nigerians for is another four years to consolidate on what we have started,” he said.