WorldStage Newsonline– A Nigerian singer and founder of 2Face Idibia Foundation, Innocent Idibia, also known as Tu-Baba has asked Nigerian youth to shun violence before, during and after the forthcoming general elections in the country. The singer made the call at the ‘Vote not fight: election is not war’ peace concert in Kaduna on Sunday. The concert witnessed a large turnout of youth drawn from the 23 Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Idibia’s 2Face Foundation is partnering with YoungStars Development Initiative, OPA Reach Out Foundation, National Democratic Institute, United States Agency for International Development and the British Department for International Development, towards ensuring a peaceful and non-violent elections in the country. The musician who is also the Peace Ambassador, ‘Vote not fight campaign’ told the youth to resist any attempt by politicians to use them to forment trouble during the elections scheduled for February 16, through to March 2, 2019. According to the hip-hop artist, every young person has bright future ahead and should not allow anyone take them away. Acknowledging that  youth involvement im violence were often sponsored by the political elite, Idibia called on politicians to eschew bitterness and ensure a peaceful campaign deviod of hate speech in the land. While urging the youth to actively participate in the electoral processes, he noted that they must “say no” to politicians who offered them money to perpetuate violence. He also urged them not to sell their votes or buy for whatever reasons as according to him, “selling your votes is selling your future.” He said, “Let no one use you for violence. It makes no sense. “Such crimes as electoral violence and vote selling and buying have grave consequencies in our laws. “The politicians who sponsor this will never tell you that section 131 Electoral Act provides that by mere threatening someone over elections you risk a fine of 1,000,000 Naira or 3 years jail term upon conviction. “They will never tell you that Section 124 provides that selling your vote will earn you a 500,000 Naira fine or 12 months in jail or both, upon conviction.” He also called on the INEC to be neutral and conduct a free, fair and credible elections, adding also that security agencies must be above board and remain non-partisan in the discharge of their duties during the polls. Earlier in his remarks, Executive Director, YoungStars Foundation, Kingsley Bangwell said there are 2,600 volunteers in 23 LGs working to ensure that peace reign in the state. Bangwell urged the youth to go out peacefully and cast their votes on election days, charging them to be “ambassadors of peace.” On his part, the Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Abdulrahman said the Command was prepared in the maintenance of law and order.