WorldStage Newsonline– Presidential Candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria, Dr. Obiagheli Ezekwesili  has said that she has the competence and capacity to rescue Nigeria  from the current socio-economic and security challenges. The ACPN Presidential candidate who spoke to journalists in Kaduna on Thursday shortly after addressing women, youths, school children and people living with disabilities as she flagged off her presidential campaign in the state, argued that the country is where it is  today because of incompetent leaders. She said she had what it takes to solve Nigeria’s complex challenges which include socio-economic and security challenges. At the Arewa House, Kaduna where she addressed women and people with disabilities, Ezekwesili said Nigeria had no reason to be a failed state and that it was high time for people of good conscience to rescue her. The Presidential candidate added that, she was in the race to safe Nigeria from  being led by incompetent leaders. She noted that she was that candidate with competence and capacity to solve the complex problems that had eluded the country for too long. The Presidential candidate insisted that Nigeria lacks quality leadership and it was time remedy it by picking her as the next president. “When you are tired of mediocrity, the only person who you can think of is Oby Ezekwesili who is offering herself to lead,” she said. She said, “We have lacked  quality leadership in Nigeria. It doesn’t matter that all those that have governed us are men. It doesn’t make any different in quality of life of Nigerian person. “I am that candidate with competence and capacity to solve the complex problems that seem to have eluded us for so long. “We cannot afford to have many more millions of Nigerians to join more than 87 million that are already poor. “When you are tired of mediocrity, the only person you can think of is Oby Ezekwesili who is offering herself to lead. “I have always been known in this society as one who has a strong voice for the fact that Nigeria can be better than it is now. Nigeria has no reason to be a failure and that is why I am running in this election. “What I need is that, this society must be mobilised immediately to see how we can come out of the whole failure and incompetency they have throne us into.” On security, she said her name if elected, she would have zero tolerance for those causing crisis in the country. “We will send signal to those that have been coming to our country to kill our people. Our government today act as if we are a weak country. Those people will get a signal that a new Sheriff is in town,” she added. On economy, she said her government would a private sector driven economy as practice in other clime. “We will run an economy that is well deregulated where private sector that suppose to be leading will lead. We will make sure that competitiveness and productivity as the hallmark of our private sector,” she declared. The Presidential candidate was also at the Abubakar Gumi Central Market where she addressed women, artisans and other traders on how she indent to rescue them from poverty if elected as president.