WorldStage Newsonline– A former governor of Kaduna  State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi and the gubernatorial candidate of the of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Alhaji Isa Ashiru and other party’s stalwarts, on Tuesday lamented that the state had slipped set backward under the All Progressives Congress led government of Mallam Nasir el-Rufai. The former governor and other prominent stalwarts of the PDP who spoke at a campaign rallies held at  Zonkwa,  Zango Kataf Local Government (LGA) and Kachia,  Kachia (LGA), all in the southern part of Kaduna State vowed to return the state  to peace, unity and development when the PDP whould voted back to power in 2019. The PDP campaign train that paid courtesy call to all the traditional rulers in Zangon- Kataf (LGA), were escorted by a huge crowd of PDP members and supporters. The party chieftains  later converged on the campaign rally ground in Zonkwa, where they addressed a  crowd waiting for them. A former Aviation Minister and Chairman of the party in the state,  Chief Felix  Hyat expressed concern over the security situation in the state. He urged the people of the state to return power back to the PDP in 2019, noting that it was during party’s regime that the state witness development. “I feel sorry for Kaduna State now that hunger, kidnapping, killings, large job losses and absence of any development has been the trade mark of the APC under the governorship of Mallam Nasir el-Rufai. “When you vote Ashiru, the PDP will return Kaduna State from its present backwardness, and tyranny of power, to the days when the PDP constructed roads, built schools, hospitals and provided rural areas with electricity and many more.” Addressing the crowd, Makarfi said when he came on board as governor in 1999, the administration discovered that most of the workers in the state were sacked by the then governor Col. Hameed Ali(current Controller-General of Customs) and “we returned most of them. “When you vote for Ashiru, including our presidential candidate, Alh. Atiku Abubakar and all our candidates, we shall returned most of you that lost their jobs, and we shall ensure that we continue the trademark of the PDP – unity, security and development. “When we came to power in 1999, we found out that Col. Ahmed Ali (now Controller General of Customs) had sacked Kaduna State workers in large numbers, and we returned most of them.” The running mate to Ashiru, Mr. Sunday Katung, a serving Rep member (Zangon Kataf/Jaba Federal Constituency), warned against what he said was later day love. “When you voted them, we only know the APC with arrogance, deceit, marginalisation of non-APC members and contempt for the people of Zango Kataf,” he said. “Never trust them now that they are wooing you with later days love. If they never loved you for nearly four years, is it now that they will respect and treat you well when you return them to a final lap of four years?” Also, immediate past governor of the state, Alh. Mukhtar Yero, who also spoke at the rally, urged the people of voting age to bring out their permanent voter cards to vote in the PDP candidates. “We have never doubted the ability of Zangon Kataf to deliver this LGA to the PDP, because you did it in the last Local Government Council polls. “If you must experience progress in your lives, make sure you bring out your Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) on the day of the governorship election and vote for the PDP. Vote, protect and ensure that your votes count.” A former Minister of Environment, Mrs Laurentia Mallam, who was Chairman Zango Kataf LGA (1999-2002) promised to deliver  95% of all vote cast in the forthcoming general elections to the PDP. “I  want to assure our visitors that Zangon Kataf will give the PDP, 95% of all the votes cast in the coming general election. We are tired of hunger and bad governance under the APC,” she said. At the  Kachia township stadium, the governorship candidate told the crowd that for over three years, the APC government was yet to complete  a single project in the state. He said, “For over three years, the APC has not executed any project in Kachia that will add value to your lives. “Where is all that money that has been appropriated all these while? I want to confirm to you, that when you vote us back to governance, anyone that takes Kaduna State money,  we shall use the law and take him to the right place and recover our monies. “If you truly enjoy the good old days and want to remove yourselves from backwardness, vote for the PDP at all levels. Don’t joke with your votes. Protect them and ensure that the count.”