Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, said on Monday that his administration would reposition the State’s civil service for better service delivery. Governor Makinde, who was speaking at the year 2019 Public Service Forum held at the Theophilus Ogunlesi Hall, University College Hospital, Ibadan, added that the ongoing Staff Audit verification the exercise was not aimed at witch-hunting Civil Servants. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, stated that the government would not pay lip service to welfare of the Civil/Public Servants. He said: “In realization of this, the present administration in the State has resolved to sincerely partner with the Public Service System by encouraging better exposure to training and retraining that will re-position it for a more effective service delivery. “I have said this and I will continue to say it, the ongoing Staff Audit Verification and Payroll Validation Exercise for all workers is not aimed at witch-hunting anyone. “It is an exercise meant to know the exact number of workers in the State thereby eliminating the ghost workers’ syndrome. “Therefore, I encourage all workers to adequately participate in this exercise.” He said that he would continue to prioritize the welfare of the civil servants, retirees in his Government and serve the entire State with the fear of God. “It is my unrepentant resolve to serve the people of this State with sincere fear of God and integrity of Heart.” “May I state categorically that my decision to devote my salaries to the payment of pensions of retirees is borne out of my heart to identify with the challenges of this class of people.” He added: “Recently, we approved a sum of N1billion for the payment of gratuities to Local Government and Primary Schools retirees. “This was preceded by the initial release of a sum of N1.48 billion, which was released and disbursed in September this year, barely four months of the inception of this administration. This was just to demonstrate that good governance is a factor of the mindset.” The Governor stressed that the regular payment of workers as and when due was to make the economy of the State more stable. He said: “It is not controvertible that presently, the economy of Oyo State is public and civil service-driven. While work is in progress to bring a multifaceted approach to tackling the mono-economic nature of the State, we knew that something had to be done, so we concluded that salaries must be paid as and when due for the State’s economy not to be static. “This is not a privilege but the right of every worker who has laboured and toiled for a whole month.” Speaking further, Governor Makinde said his administration would do all it can to bring back the lost glory of the State in education and some other sectors, saying: “It will be recalled that at the presentation of the year 2020 budget to the State House of Assembly, I mentioned that 22.3 per cent of the 2020 Budget has been devoted to education” “This administration is determined to bring back the fading glory of this sector in Oyo Stated,” Governor Makinde said, explaining that his Government recently approved and released letters of promotion to over 1,000 vice principals on Grade Level 15, who had been denied promotions by the previous administration. “We had recently reconsidered the stagnation of over 1,000 vice principals on Grade Level 15 who were due for promotion but were denied due to lack of vacancies to accommodate them on GL 16 and we have graciously approved their promotions with immediate effect and this has been with their letters issued accordingly by the Teaching Service Commission.” Governor Makinde, therefore, urged all the workers in the State to apply the knowledge acquired from the lecture to bring more productivity to their various works. He said: “The theme of this year’s programme, “strengthening the Public Service for efficient service delivery” is expected to bring a great impact into the Oyo State Civil/Public Service. “I, therefore, wish to admonish all workers here present to make good use of the knowledge to be acquired and pass same to their subordinates.” Earlier in her remarks, the Head of Service, Mrs. Ololade Agboola stated that the Public Service Forum lecture was introduced as capacity building for Civil and Public servants through knowledge sharing and experience passed down by the old veterans, in order to bring out the best from them. She x-rayed the achievements of the Governor within six months in the Office and commended him for the prompt payment of salaries of the workers on or before 25th of every month; increase in the amount being paid as Car and Housing loan; declaration of free education for all pupils and students from primary to secondary schools. She  further noted that the provision of reading and writing materials; provision of One hundred (100) Patrol Vehicles for the security of lives and properties of the good people of Oyo state and recent approval for the recruitment of over 500 Health workers to reawaken the State sector were other achievements recorded by the Governor in the last six months. LGs as centres of development Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, has inaugurated 68 caretaker chairmen to oversee the 33 local governments and 35 Local Council Development Areas of the State in the state, declaring that the councils must be centres of development. The Governor, who was speaking at the swearing-in ceremony held inside the House of Chiefs, Parliament Building, Agodi, Ibadan, said that the caretaker chairmen must contribute meaningfully to the development of the state. He asked them to serve as the eyes, ears and mouths of the Government in its effort to deliver good governance. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted Governor Makinde as saying that the inauguration of the local government chairmen was taking place in order to avoid a vacuum in governance at the grassroots. According to him, the intention of his administration is to ensure that the people of Oyo State continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy. Makinde stated that his government is a people-centred government that will continue to put the interests of the people of Oyo State first. He also said that his decision to inaugurate the councils was to ensure that the closest level of government to the people is fully functional such that the councils could make meaningful impacts on their lives. He said: “What we are doing here today, inaugurating the Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas Caretaker Chairpersons, is to ensure that a vacuum is not created in governance, and that our people continue to enjoy the dividends that accrue from electing a legitimate government. “I have often said that this administration is people-centered and will continue to put the interests of the people first. You will agree with me that the closer government is to the people, the more impactful and meaningful the activities of government will be to them. “Therefore, this inauguration is an integral and essential part of the good governance that we promised the people of Oyo State. “Permit me to use this occasion to share a few reminders with the Caretaker-Chairmen-designates. You are indeed occupying unique positions as a link between the State Government and the People. “Ideally, you are the first point of call that should address the governance issues of the people before escalating same to higher authorities. “Therefore, if we are to compare Oyo State to an enterprise with many branches, you are the Branch Supervisors taking responsibility of the affairs of the company at a local level.” Makinde, who noted that the new caretaker chairmen would be the eyes, ears and mouths of the Government in engendering development and bringing good governance to the people at the grassroots, urged the chairmen to carry out key functions in driving the policy actions of the government in the areas of security, health, education and economic expansion to ensure accelerated development for Oyo State. “In some circles, you will be said to be the eyes and ears of government. But when we say eyes and ears, we overlook another important function. If God had created humans with only eyes and ears, then it would mean that he only wants us to see and listen. But in all His wisdom, he did not leave off giving us a mouth. “Therefore, in this instance, you will not only be our eyes and ears, but you will also be our mouth. You will see, you will listen and you will speak. “What are some aspects of governance that you will be carrying out these oversight functions? Well, they are indeed many and varied. But I will talk about a few very important ones, given the needs of Oyo State at this time. Please bear in mind the four main pillars of our Roadmap to Accelerated Development in Oyo State, namely Education, Healthcare, Security, and the Economy through trade and agribusiness. “As an administration, we are very interested in the education of our children. The Commissioner of Education can confirm we have started distributing the compendium of past questions to the SSS 3 students in all secondary schools in Oyo State. Our goal in education is to ensure no child is out-of-school. “I would be happy to see your plans to make sure that children get off the streets and into the classrooms. I know you will have more opportunities to liaise with the parents in a bid to implement our free education policies. “You will also be in a better position to report any issues that may be working against this policy. In this, we need you to be our eyes, ears, and mouth. So, see what is going on, listen to the complaints and challenges the parents have and talk to them about our plans. “Another key aspect I want to mention is with markets and small businesses. We are very interested in the growth of our economy through agriculture and trade. The economy of Oyo State cannot grow if small businesses do not thrive and this will mean our Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) cannot grow either. One of the points we raised during our campaign is how multiple taxation is killing businesses. We want to remove all the roadblocks to business growth. “Therefore, we will be expecting you to work with local businesses and the State Internal Revenue Board to make sure that people are happy doing business in Oyo State at the local level. Let us know what the challenges are so that we can work together to resolve them. “I will not end this short speech without raising the issue of refuse disposal. One of the major functions of the Local Government Authority is to be responsible for waste removal. I expect that you will go around the areas to which you are assigned and see things for yourself, and hear the challenges our people are having with solid waste disposal. “As I stated during my last media chat, by the first quarter of 2020, the challenges with refuse disposal will be a thing of the past and we will have a seamless system in place. So, I am putting you to task to work with the Commissioner for the Environment and Natural Resources, Honourable Kehinde Ayoola and the Oyo State Waste Management Authority (OYOWMA) to provide the necessary input to make this plan a reality. Data is key. So, let us have the data as we plan for costing and implementation. “Once again, I welcome all 68 of you Caretaker Chairpersons. I enjoin you to contribute your meaningful quota to ensuring that we move Oyo State forward.”