Immediate past Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Tunde Fowler on Monday thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the privilege he had to serve the nation and for what he  was able to do with the support of all Staff. Waxing biblical, Fowler noted that the taxman job is one of service to
one’s fatherland as it gives one the opportunity to serve fellow
humans and the nation. Change, he noted is constant.  It is normal that people will always
resist change, he noted. He spoke at arbour 6: 35 pm as he handed over to the Coordinating
Director Domestic Taxes Group, Abiodun Aina, who promised to steady
the ship of the FIRS. Said Tunde Fowler in a handover over ceremony at the Boardroom of the
FIRS: “Let me thank all of you who are here for what we have been able
to do for our country. From the driver to the senior staff, everybody
played a role.  But with change, sometimes there is resistance. People
will not understand the vision, will not understand the reason for the
change. But hope in leaving FIRS, I’ve left behind something,
something, positive, that each and every one of you can build on. “We have got a mandate. That mandate is not just to collect revenue.
It’s a mandate to collect the maximum amount of revenue for all
concerned for the benefit of all Nigerians. “There is nothing automatic about having a second Term.  Some of you
might say it’s a big surprise.  It a privileged to serve one’s
country. And if you have the privilege of serving your country for one
term and you believe you have done your best, you have to thank God
for that. For those of you we are leaving behind, Ï do not want to get too
scriptural. But I believe that anything that you do, that helps your
fellow human being, your neighbour is a blessing. And I believe that
this job that we have been given is a job that will continue to help
all Nigerians and all people residing in Nigeria. “We have the opportunity to show the world that Nigeria has a lot to
offer. It was during this period that we had a top Director,
representing Nigeria and the world at the OECD. It was within this
period that Nigeria, for the first time chaired ATAF (African Tax
Administration Forum), for two years running. It was within this
period that Nigeria through your support, was appointed as the 1st
Vice Chairman of the United Nations Committee of Tax Experts. So we
have a lot going for us. “I like you to keep the flag flying, But I hope that sometime, when I
visit, my picture will be somewhere on the wall. “One thing, for people who have known me for a while, is that some of
them refer to me as a shark. I like to keep people on their toes. Some
of you might have thought that I don’t appreciate your contribution.
But some of you… might have been able to do things better. And part of
my role is to bring out that s potentials in you. And I hope I have
been able to do that. I am content. “I like to thank the President for giving me this opportunity of
service. It’s a privilege of service to your country. But at the same
time, I believe I leave behind a good crop of directors that can move
this organisation forward. I will say that for the incoming Chairman, for the incoming Board of
Directors, give them the support. The vision, I believe, is the same
vision that we have. But how to go about it may differ. Open
yourselves up to change. At this point, it gives me extreme privilege,
to hand over the running of this organisation until the Senate
approves the  new Board, to someone who has been here, to someone who
understands the working of the FIRS, to someone who has been part of
the change.  And I believe that you will give him the support, not
even the support you have given me. But more support. SO that when he
hands over the organisation to the new board, they will see that this
organisation is one that shares the same vision, and of course
believes in his mandate. With these few words, I like to say it’s a
pleasure working with all of you. “Some of you might have thought that don’t like you. But I assure you
it was work. But I believe in this room, we have got a lot of talent
regardless of what happens, keep the flag flying. “On this note, Mr. Aina, I have the privilege of handing over FIRS to
you.  God bless FIRS. Long live the Republic of Nigeria. Acting Executive Chairman, FIRS, Abiodun Aina spoke in glowing terms
about Fowler. Said Aina: “Thank you very much Mr, Chairman, my boss,
my brother, and my good friend Sir. As you hand over to me I say what
I’m I running. YO have fought a good fight. You laid a very u solid
foundation… “Within the intervening period that I will be holding forte, I promise
you to steady the ship, by the grace of God. You have done a lot
within the space of four years. You have transformed FIRS. You have
modernised it. There has been a lot of innovations. And under you we
have achieved great heights. When we look back in 2015, collection was
about N3. 3 trillion. At the end of 2018, with your leadership, we
were able to move to N5. 32 Trillion. That was the highest collection
ever, in the annals FIRS. You brought dynamism to FIRS. “You introduced so many programmes that repositioned FIRS: Tax Amnesty
 Programme, implemented VAIDS, increased the no of taxpayers
nationwide to over 20 million in a spate of four years, began placing
lien on the account of taxpayers to ensure that each capable corporate
taxpayers pay his/her dues, fostered collaboration amongst the states
through the Joint Tax Board, began robust information sharing  amongst
states, launched the JTB TIN so that states might have access to data
for tax purposes, deepened FIRS’ embrace of technology for tax
purposes and many more. “But like you also mentioned in your speech, change is usually
resisted. And so you stepped on toes. That is normal. Leadership is
not a popularity contest. And I’m sure you know that very well. And
that was why you were focused on carrying out the mandate that was
given to you. I can tell you on behalf of my colleagues here that we
will miss you.  You have left a very big shoe behind. We will do all
we can to ensure that we will keep the flag flying. “Thank you very much for what you have done for us. As Aina ended his brief remark, directors and heads of department  in
attendance, held  hands and sang For his a jolly good fellow, chorus”
for the outgoing executive chairman. Many pumped hands and thanked
Fowler for his contribution to the Service.