The Federal Government has rejected the US designation of Nigeria as a country that engages in or tolerates severe violations of religious freedom, saying the iniquitous tag stems from an orchestrated narrative that has long been discredited. In a statement issued in Abuja on Sunday, the Minister of Informationand Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said the good people of Nigeriaenjoy unfettered freedom to practise their religion, and blamed failedpoliticians and disgruntled elements – some of themsupposedly-respected leaders –  for latching on to religion as theirtrump card, especially in the run up to the last general elections, tooust the Buhari Administration. He said it is unfortunate that the US fell for the antics of thediscontented and the unpatriotic few, who will not hesitate to hangNigeria out to dry on the altar of their inordinate ambition and theirsheer animosity towards the Administration. The Minister said the Nigerian government is acutely aware of how thepolitical opposition, in particular, had spared no resources inderiving political capital from the various security challenges in thecountry ”The deliberate effort to give religious coloration to thefarmers-herders clashes and the Boko Haram insurgency, in particular,has undoubtedly helped to mislead the US into concluding that thegovernment is doing little or nothing to guarantee religious freedomin the country. ”But, as we have always said, the farmers-herders clashes havenothing to do with religion but everything to do with environmentaland socio-economic realities. The religious tag given to the clasheshas no basis in fact, but is very convenient for those who will veryeasily give the dog a bad name just to hang it. On its part, the BokoHaram terrorists are extreme fanatics who do not subscribe to thetenets of any religion, in spite of their pretence to Islamicadherence,” he said. Alhaji Mohammed said the good news is that the government hassucceeded in curbing the farmers-herders clashes through theimplementation of proactive and multi-dimensional strategy, which isyielding remarkable results, just as it has largely defeated the BokoHaram insurgency. On the El-Zakzaky issue, which was referred to in the report by the USgovernment, he described it is purely a criminal matter, which isbeing handled by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Minister said while the government welcomes constructive criticismfrom any quarter, it rejects any attempt to sow the seed of mistrustamong the various religious groups in the country.