The new President of Algeria, Abdelmadjid Tebboune on Thursday pledged massive reforms during his five-year term in an attempt to assuage months-long protests in the energy-rich country. Speaking in an inaugural address following his swearing-in on Thursday, Tebboune promised to work soon on amending the country’s constitution to curtail presidential powers and enshrine human rights. Tebboune, 74, succeeds long-time ruler Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was forced to step down in April amid mass protests and pressure from the military. “The new constitution will curb powers of the president, protect the country from a one-man rule, guarantee separation between different authorities, toughen combat of corruption, and safeguard basic freedoms,” Tebboune said. “From now on, we will not allow tampering with public money and will not give immunity to the corrupt,” the ex-prime minister said. Opponents consider Tebboune part of Bouteflika’s authoritarian rule, in spite of the fact that he was sacked three months into his time as prime minister. Bouteflika, now aged 82, ruled energy-rich Algeria for two decades, an era that was marked by cronyism and mismanagement.On Thursday, Tebboune also promised to diversify Algeria’s economy, reform the tax system and overhaul health, housing and education policies. He reached out to opponents. “We all have to close the page of differences, discord, and fragmentation,” Tebboune said.He added that his election was an outcome of street protests that have roiled Algeria for months. Since Bouteflika’s ouster, protesters have called for key officials from the era of his rule to depart and for a radical change of the political system before an election is held. In a gesture of modesty, Tebboune asked in his inaugural speech to be addressed merely as “Mr President”, instead of the usual “Your Excellency.” As he repeated the text of the oath at a ceremony held in the presidential palace in the capital Algiers, Tebboune put his hand on a copy of the Koran, the holy book of Islam. The country’s military has already pledged support for the new president, hoping his election will end Algeria’s long-running political crisis. In his inaugural address, the new president praised the army and the country’s military strongman, Gaid Salah. Tebboune was elected president last week with 58.15 per cent of the vote, beating four other contenders. Protesters dismissed the election as a farce.