WorldStage Newsonline– The Managing Director and Chief Executive of the Nigeria LNG Limited, Mr Tony Attah has expressed optimistic that plan to increase the company’s production capacity through its Train 7 expansion project will bring immense benefits including immediate employment opportunities for more than 10, 000 Nigerians, and will attract foreign direct investment of about US$25b to the country. The company is in the process of taking final investment decision (FID) on the project. Mr Attah in his address at the Nigeria LPGA & LPG Summit 2019, on 27th November, 2019 at the Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos said the focus of the company was to ensure that Nigeria would not miss out on the opportunities for more economic growth, and for a more central role in the global energy supply field. “Actualisation of Train 7 will re-assure the world that Nigeria LNG is
a leading and reliable supplier of LNG with the increase of our production
capacity by 35% from 22 Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA) to 30 MTPA. The
increase will further boost the country’s GDP significantly,” he said. He said it would be a great achievement if such achievements can be
replicated across the country with the belief that the country has the
resources, but needed the industrial will-power by the private sector to make
it happen. “The onus is on those of us in the private sector to find ways to
independently or collaboratively help the public sector to reinforce our growth,”
he said. “As a visionary company, Nigeria LNG’s projection in the next 30 years is
to achieve and maintain top quartile performance in the LNG industry. This way
we ensure we continue to deliver for our staff; shareholders and stakeholders
as well as inspiring a whole new generation of Nigerians to believe that they
each can conquer the world in their spheres of endeavour. “We will also continue to support the advancement of our people and the
Nigerian society through our sterling CSR initiatives some of which include our
commitment to the Bonny-Bodo road project, our top rated Nigeria Prize for
Literature, and the Nigeria Prize for Science, our three tier scholarship
initiatives, to mention a few. “Keeping up with our success rating at home and abroad promises to be
of great economic benefit to the nation’s development and growth and it
behooves all captains of industry here present and in the country to ensure
that our operations benefit not just their investors, but also our nation. “Nigeria needs our commitment to initiatives that support national
development and growth. The theme of this summit requires us to harmonize our
resources and assets with our needs – development and growth. That is what we
should focus on. LPG is a valuable resource especially in view of the growing
conversation about combating global warming with the use of cleaner fuel. We
must explore avenues that enable us to maximally utilise this resource to drive
our industries, our homes and save our environment from pollution and
desertification caused by the use of wood for cooking and other bio-degradable.” NIGERIA’S ECONOMIC TRENDS This country has a long history of transitioning from one notable
economic strength to another, starting from the era when agriculture was the
mainstay of our national income, accounting for 64.5% of export earnings and an
average of 57% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the 1960s. At that time, our nation was notable for exporting cash crops such as
rubber from the south-south region; groundnut, hide, and skin from the northern
region; cocoa and coffee from the western region; and palm oil and kernels from
the eastern region of the country. Nigeria’s groundnut pyramids and the massive cocoa plantations which
carved an identity for the country before the advent of crude oil soon dwindled
and became history on the pages of textbooks as the discovery of crude oil in
1951 and the eventual commencement of production in 1957 marked a new era for
our economic development. ADVENT OF CRUDE OIL By  1960, the year of our
sovereignty as a nation, we had recorded the export of  about 847,000 tonnes of crude oil and ever
since,  Nigeria has been recognized
globally as the tenth most petroleum-rich nation, Africa’s largest oil producer
and by the far the most affluent in the continent. This transition came on the back of the quest for more efficient source
of energy or fuel to power industries around the world. Most of us here may be
conversant with the transition from the era of coal which was also
significantly abundant in Nigeria’s Eastern region to the era of crude product
as more efficient fuel. That was the quick win for our nascent economy which
blossomed with the oil boom in the 1970s. The world has since gone in search of alternative energy sources; not
just for efficient fuel, but for cleaner sources of energy. For instance, by 2010, Nigeria supplied over 10% of U.S. crude oil
imports and ranked as the fifth-largest source for oil imports in the U.S, but
that changed by 2014 with America’s shift to Shale production as a better
alternative. Nigeria lost that market share and the trend is growing around the
world as more and more countries are exploring and embracing better
alternatives. This is happening even among crude oil exporters. Today, India stands as the largest consumer of Nigerian oil, a
situation that foreshadows the end of another dispensation in our economic
advancement. NATURAL GAS ERA & NLNG The good news however, is that the world transitioned from crude oil to
natural gas and our nation, thanks to nature is richly endowed with natural gas
estimated to be three times as substantial as 
our crude oil reserves. Clearly, that makes Nigeria a gas nation with reasonable amount of
crude oil. Without delving into other valuable assets that can be utilized to
drive our development and growth as a nation, the theme for this summit  points to a compelling need for every
stakeholder to explore effective ways to harmonize our national resources to
drive our advancement. We have the comparative advantage in the global energy sector to reap
all the dividends that the market offers. For instance, in the global crude
market Nigeria’s oil is dubbed “light” and “sweet”, as the oil
is largely Sulphur-free, and thus, the preferred option. Recognising the advantage of our vast natural gas resources also,
Nigeria LNG (NLNG) is determined to change the narrative about Nigeria and
Africa by setting a world-class pace though our business model built on
integrity, professionalism and reliability. We are a solid and proud Nigerian brand at home and abroad, quietly and
successfully competing globally, thus paving the way for other Nigerian brands
and companies to be taken more seriously on the world stage. This is the result of keen devotion by our 100% Nigerian Management
Team and 95% indigenous workforce, to build a success story ina high-tech
industry that is obtainable  in the
advanced nations of the world. Our sustained success in 20 years of operation and30th year of
incorporation,( the anniversaries which we proudly commemorated this year)as
the LNG giant in sub-Sahara Africa, as well as our is indicative of the fact
that as a nation, we can achieve whatever we set out to do towards our
development and growth if we indeed commit to it. As the foremost natural gas exporter in the country, helping to power
industrialized nations of the world, Nigeria LNG has a vision of being a global
LNG company, helping to build a better Nigeria. I expect that everyone in this
auditorium should have similar sense of commitment as well, because, in the
long run, growing our businesses translates into growing our economy as a
nation. NLNG’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY Towards actualizing  our vision
of helping to build a better Nigeria, NLNG has spent over $200 million on
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects in the Niger Delta and the
country as a whole. . Recently, Nigeria LNG committed to paying 50% of the cost
of construction of the N120 billion, 38 kilometer Bonny-Bodo road to link its
host community, Bonny Island to the main land and Rivers State capital, Port
Harcourt. The road when completed is expected to open up opportunities for
rapid socio-economic development of the area and impact on the lives of the
millions of Nigerians living in Bonny Island and neighbouring Niger Delta
communities including Ogoni, Okrika, Eleme and Andoni. To-date, our six-train plant has generated more than US$100 billion in
revenue and has paid over US$16 billion dividends to the Federal Government of
Nigeria, through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC)’S 49%
shareholding in NLNG. Nigeria LNG has paid a total of over US$6 billion in taxes comprising
of Companies Income Tax, Tertiary Education Tax, Withholding Tax, Value Added
Tax; and other payments to Government including PAYE, state and local
government taxes, as well as regulators’ levies and fees totalling over
N51billion. We have also paid over US$13 Billion to the Federal Government of
Nigeria for feed gas purchases Our operation has helped to reduce about four trillion cubic feet of
previously flared natural gas thereby improving Nigeria’s gas flaring profile
from about 65% percent in 1999 to less than 25% today. OUR LPG INTERVENTION We have also undertaken the role as a major influencer of the domestic
LPG market in Nigeria, dedicating 350,000 metric tonnes of LPG to the market;
an effort that focuses on deepening the penetration of cooking gas to support
environmental and human protection through the use of cleaner energy. Early in the month, we commenced the direct supply of LPG in Port
Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Our aim is to ensure product availability,
accessibly and affordability. The company 
has recently began to explore the possibility of delivering LNG in
addition to the LPG to the domestic market in line with the Federal
Government’s aspirations on gas based industrialization in Nigeria. With
product availability and accessibility, we expect that more people will be
employed in the value chain from the off takers to the major distributors and
eventually retail outlets that gets the products into the nooks and crannies of
the nation. Ultimately, more and more Nigerians will begin to appreciate the
value that cooking gas has over other unhealthy cooking fuels and they will
embrace the commodity.