WorldStage Newsonline– The Commonwealth Medical Association (CMA) on Thursday called  on the Federal Government of Nigeria  to improve security to prevent the killings and kidnappings  of medical doctors and other health professionals in the country. Dr Osahon Enabulele, the President of CMA who made the call in a condolence message to  the family of late Prof. Jerome Elusiyan who was killed while returning from the  Ambrose Ali University, Edo, on Friday, Dec. 13 said, “CMA remains deeply saddened over the gruesome murder by unknown gunmen of one of her own; an erudite scholar, a patriotic Nigerian, a reputable professor of paediatrics and the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital. “Late Elusiyan was killed in the line of duty while returning from a clinical examination of the undergraduate medical students of the Ambrose Ali University in Edo State of Nigeria. “This unfortunate death, like many others that had taken placebefore now, is one too many for Nigeria and her health community.“ Enabulele also condemned  the killings and the kidnappings of medical doctors and other health professionals, including the recent killings of  some aid workers, especially,  in the Northeast, in the course of their duties. According to him, it is worrisome and totally unacceptable that some kidnapped medical doctors and health workers are yet to be released after over a year in their  kidnappers’ den. Enabulele, however, called for improved security and ambulance services on Nigerian highways to avoid needless killings and other social vices. He also urged the government to conduct an urgent appraisal of the security situation in the nation with a view to strengthening the security system through the deployment ofmore effective security measures. “This calls for a great concern, especially,  at this time when Nigeria is grappling with a burgeoning phenomenon of external brain drain from her health sector. “We urge  the Nigerian governments at all levels to do more to protect their  citizens, including medical doctors and other health workers who have decided to stay back in Nigeria to render healthcare services and mentor younger generations. “We passionately call for the  strengthening of the security measures in the health workplace to safeguard the few medical doctors and other health professionals currently working in Nigeria. “This is to prevent brain drain in the country as well as avoid losing them to more secure and receptive climates, ” he said. Enabulele condoled with the immediate family, the Federal  Government, the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and the Nigerian health community over the sad demise of Prof. Elusiyan. “As Prof. Jerome Elusiyan begins his final journey home today, we pray for the eternal repose of his great soul. “Adieu Prof. Jerome Boluwaji Elutayo Elusiyan!!! , “Enabulele said.