WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’s Federal High Court, Abuja has fixed March 12 for the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to arraign the Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Mr Ishaq Modibbo over alleged N2.5 billion fraud charge. Kawu was charged by the Federal Government alongside the  Managing Director of Pinnacle Communications, Mr Dipo Onifade,  Founder and Chairman Board of Directors of Pinnacle, Mr Lucky Omoluwa and Pinnacle Communications Ltd on Jan. 21. When the matter was called, the ICPC Counsel, Mr Henry Emore made an oral application to withdraw the earlier charge filed on Jan. 21. Emore informed the court that he was substituting the charge dated Jan. 21, with another one dated Feb. 21 because the first charge contained noticeable errors Mr Alex Izinyon (SAN), who announced appearance for Onifade, Omoluwa and Pinnacle did not oppose the application to withdraw the first charge. Consequently, the judge, Justice Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo struck out the charge dated Jan. 21 and replaced it with the one dated Feb. 21. The court also granted an order of substituted service against the NBC boss. The court ordered that the charge and summons be pasted on the last known address of Modibbo. The court further directed the prosecuting counsel to effect service of the charge on Onifade, Omoluwa and Pinnacle, within 48 hours, since Izinyon had accepted to receive the charge sheet on their behalf. Giwa-Ogunbanjo adjourned the matter until March 12 for arraignment of the accused persons. The fresh  charges read in part: “That you, Is’haq  Modibbo, Lucky Omonuwa and Dipo Onifade sometime between Dec. 2016 and May 2017 in Abuja within the jurisdiction of this Court, conspired with each other to use the position of  Modibbo as the Director-General of NBC to confer corrupt advantage on  Omonuwa, your friend and associate by recommending to the Minister of Information and Culture to approve payment of N2.5 billion to Pinnacle Communications Limited. “A private company owned by Omonuwa as seed grant under the DSO of the Federal Government of Nigeria when you knew that the said company was not entitled to receive such grant and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 26(1) (c ) and punishable under Section 19 of the ICPC Act, 2000.”