Residents of Ikorodu and its environs were elated to hear that the long abandoned Ishawo and Igbe roads in the Local Government area will receive priority attention from the All Progressives Congress in the next political dispensation. The pledge was made on Thursday by Lagos State APC Gubernatorial candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat during the party’s Senatorial rally held in Ikorodu. Sanwo-Olu who assured the people of the division of his commitment to drive economic projects to the area promised to prioritize physical infrastructure that will have direct impact on the residents. He promised to construct new roads, rehabilitate and upgrade old ones so as to direct more development to the division. Sanwo-Olu further stated that his administration, if  elected as governor, will build new stadium in Ikorodu. ‘’I know that numerous youths of this division love sports and we have resolved to build stadium for you. We want you to channel all your youthful energy to positive use,’’ Sanwo-Olu stated. The APC standard bearer urged Ikorodu people to come out to cast their ballots for President Muhammadu Buhari and his running mate, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on the 16th of February, saying that a vote for the duo will ensure continuity of purposeful leadership that the country has had since the APC took over power from the Peoples Democratic Party in 2015. ‘’We must ensure that all our candidates including senatorial, House of Representatives and President are voted in on February 16th 2019. We must consolidate our leadership in Nigeria. We cannot afford to lose any seat in Lagos State.’’ Dr. Obafemi Hamzat reminded the party faithful of President Muhammadu Buhari’s laudable achievements in the area of infrastructural development and human capital development. He asked the mammoth crowd of party supporters, ‘‘who built the Ikorodu-Sagamu road that has been abandoned for many years? It’s president Buhari,’’ Hamzat answered alongside the chant of supporters. He charged the party supporters to go all out and ensure the party’s victory on February 16th and March 2nd 2019. ‘’We must show the opposition that we remain the party of choice for millions of Nigerians and the only way we can do that is by winning convincingly in this election.’’ The State chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun of the APC presented Mr. Sanwo-Olu and other candidates including State House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Lagos East Senatorial candidate, Mr. Bayo Oshinowo, aka pepper the symbolic party flag. Balogun charged Ikorodu voters to vote for certainty rather than experimenting with a party that does not have any meaningful plan for Lagosians. The chairman’s message was corroborated by the deputy governor of Lagos State, Dr. Mrs. Idiat Adebule who said, ”a vote for Sanwo-Olu is a vote for continuity of great development going on in the State.”