WorldStage Newsonline—-As voting continues across the country on Saturday, the former President Olusegun Obasanjo and  National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Adams Oshiomhole have commended the voting process of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections in the country. Obasanjo and  Oshiomhole  disclosed this in  separate interviews with newsmen  after they voted. The former president,  who  voted at Ward 2, Unit 22 Polling Unit at Olusomi compound at Totoro area of Abeokuta- North council area at about 11.15.a.m,  described the voting process as smooth. He also expressed  satisfaction with  what he described as ” an impressive turnout” by the electorate. ” I am here to perform my civic duty where I was born and  the polling officers have made me to  go through the process of voting. “They gave me the ballot papers  for the Presidential , Senate and the House of Representatives polls  and it was very smooth and peaceful,” he said Obasanjo, however, noted that the  voting process was delayed by about two hours,  saying that “it can still be accommodated. Oshiomhole  after casting his vote at about 11.55 a.m. in his Unit 1, Ward 10, Iyamho, Etsako West Local Government Area, Edo commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the process, saying that there was improvement on previous exercises. He said that he was impressed with the large turnout of voters in spite of the postponement of the election last Saturday by INEC. “I have been voting here since 1999 and the turnout here today is totally unprecedented and some of you who have witnessed previous voting here will agree that it is almost three, four times higher. “Those with small babies on their back who have come to vote, I am touched. I think so far, so good. “They say it is never over until it is over; for now, I am satisfied with what I have seen here. “I understand they didn’t start by 8 a.m.; I don’t know why; what is important as Nigerians at this hour is the outcome. It is important, but what is more important is the process. “Let us move away from where people will be carrying ballot boxes. “Look at the young men and elderly women coming out to vote, I think this shows that democracy is growing.” The party chairman expressed confidence that with the turnout and peaceful conduct of the polls, his party would win. “I am not a fortune teller, and I am not here to campaign, but I have always said that the thing about election is comparing one with another. “Now from evidence, our own candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, went around the 36 states, but his opponent couldn’t cover 36 states.