WorldStage Newsonline– Phillips Consulting has released a report where it reviewed the Socio-Economic Impact of Cancer in Nigeria with the cost of treatments put at a range of N850,000 ($2,361) and $10,000 (N3,600,000). In 2018 Phillips Consulting which examined the socioeconomic impact of cancer in an extensive study, it was noted that the number of people resorting to public intervention had constantly increased over the years due to the masses not able to afford the costs. “This is intuitive evidence of the great socioeconomic burden faced by cancer patients and their caregivers,” the report said. “The PCL research showed that every year, Tens and Thousands of Nigerians troop abroad in search of the best and most affordable medical treatments and health care services. Destinations such as The Middle East, India, Turkey, United States of America and Europe thrive on Nigerian medical tourists. “Cancer patients spend astronomical amounts of money seeking treatment abroad, up to $60,000, excluding other associated financial costs such visa fees, flight tickets, logistics, hotel accommodation and upkeep for the patient and their caregiver. The high amount of capital flight suggests opportunities for investment along the value chain of cancer management in Nigeria. “The PCL survey showed that Nigerian women and low-income earners were the most affected by cancer, but Irrespective of one’s socioeconomic status, the emotional and financial burden of fighting cancer is excruciating. “According to the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015, total deaths caused by Cancer rose by 17% between 2005 and 2015. By 2030, cancer incidence worldwide is projected to rise by 68% to 23.6 million new cases every year. “Cancer was estimated to have caused 8.8 million deaths (one in every six deaths) globally in 2015 and cost the world, in 2010, the best part of US$1.16trillion. Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the world and the most prevalent cause of NCD (non-communicable disease) death after cardiovascular disease. “In 2012, Cancers caused 3% of over two million deaths recorded in Nigeria. Guided by insights from the combined health industry, government, NGOs, researchers of all stripes and other interested corporate bodies must provide the basis for effective actions against Cancer. “Ultimately, the task of beating cancer requires the combined efforts of all stakeholders.” Managing Consultant at Phillips Consulting “ Victor was quoted as saying, “We will not only direct our significant research capabilities towards plotting the way forward; we are also prepared to support stakeholders in ensuring the effectiveness of cancer management through the effective project management of palliative programs and initiatives. Our extensive knowledge of the local environment also ensures that we are equipped to help local and international organisations deliver sustainable outcomes in their efforts towards combating cancer. Though an enormous challenge, our commitment to that task at Phillips Consulting is unflinching.” To prepare the report, Phillips Consulting  said responses were gathered from thousands of Nigerian Cancer victims or caregivers, family and friends. It noted that in Nigeria, the general media were most often overwhelmed with reports of cancer victims alongside impassioned solicitations for funds for treatment abroad. “Today In major cities of Nigeria, it is not no longer a strange sight to see caregivers soliciting alms from the general public for people living with this deadly disease,” it said. “Several health management organisations in Nigeria do not cover Cancer treatments; neither does The Nigerian National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS).”