The
Advisory Boards for The Nigeria Prize for Science, The Nigeria Prize for
Literature and The Literary Criticism Prize, sponsored by Nigeria LNG (NLNG)
Limited, have published the Call for Entries for the 2019 edition of the prizes,
flagging off this year’s competitions. The
Science and Literature prizes, which are now in their 15th year, each
come with a cash prize of $100, 000 while the Literary Criticism Prize has a
prize money of N1 million. The
Science Prize, which recognises outstanding scientific achievements by Nigerians
and non-Nigerians, will this year focus on Climate
Change: Erosion, Drought and Desertification. The
Literature Prize, on the other hand, will focus on Children’s Literature. The prize which honours the author of the
best book by a Nigerian rotates among four literary genres, namely Prose
Fiction, Poetry, Drama and Children’s Literature. The Literary Criticism Prize,
which also aims to promote Nigerian Literature, will receive entries on works
in literary criticism of Nigerian Literature, especially critical essays on new
writings in Nigerian Literature. According
to the publication in national dailies and online media, the Call for Entries for
the Literature prize and Literary Criticism opened on February 15, 2019 and
will close on April 5, 2019. The window for the science prize also opened on February
15, 2019 but will close on May 3, 2019. Professor
Obododinma Oha will chair the panel of judges for this year’s Literature and
the Literary Criticism competition. Professor Oha, poet, editor and a
translator, is a professor of Semiotics, Stylistics, and Creative Writing at the
Department of English, University of Ibadan. He writes poems in English and
Igbo. Other
members of the panel include Professor Asabe Usman Kabir and Dr. Patrick Okolo.
Professor Kabir is a professor of Oral and African Literature at Usmanu
Danfodiyo University Sokoto. Dr. Oloko, a Senior lecturer at the University of
Lagos Nigeria, specialization in African postcolonial literature, gender and
cultural studies. The
winners of the Literature and Literary Criticism prizes will be announced at an
award ceremony in October 2019, to commemorate the anniversary of the first LNG
export from the NLNG’s Plant on October 9, 1999. The Science Prize winner as
usual will be revealed earlier in the year. Three
winners emerged in the prize categories in 2018. They were Soji Cole who clinched
the Literature Prize award with his play, ‘Embers’,
Dr. Peter Ngene  was awarded the Science
Prize, for his work in “Innovation in Electric Power”, and Professor Isidore
Diala, a professor of African Literature at Imo State University, Owerri, took
home the Literary Criticism Prize. The Nigeria Prize for Literature has rewarded
eminent writers such as the late Ikeogu Oke (2017, Poetry) with ‘The Heresiad’;
Abubakar Adam Ibrahim (2016, Prose) with ‘Season of Crimson Blossoms’; Sam
Ukala (2014; Drama) with ‘Iredi War’; Tade Ipadeola (2013; Poetry) with his
collection of poems, ‘Sahara Testaments’; Chika Unigwe (2012 – prose), with her
novel, ‘On Black Sister’s Street’; as well as Adeleke Adeyemi (2011, children’s
literature) with his book, ‘ The Missing Clock’. Other awardees are Esiaba Irobi (2010,
drama) who clinched the prize posthumously with his book ‘Cemetery Road’; Kaine
Agary (2008, prose) with “Yellow Yellow”; Mabel Segun (co-winner, 2007,
children’s literature) for her collection of short plays, ‘Reader’s Theatre’;
Professor Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo (co-winner, 2007, children’s literature) with
her book, ‘My Cousin Sammy’; Ahmed Yerima (2006, drama) for his classic, ‘Hard
Ground’; and Gabriel Okara (co-winner, 2005, poetry) for his book Chants of a
Minstrel and Professor Ezenwa Ohaeto (co-winner, 2005, poetry) for his book The
Dreamer: His Vision. Past winners of The Nigeria Prize for
Science are Ikeoluwapo Ajayi, Ayodele Jegede, Bidemi Yusuf, Olugbenga Mokuolu
and Chukwuma Agubata (2017), Professor Akii Ibhadode (2010); the late Professor
Andrew Nok (2009); Dr. Ebenezer Meshida (2008); Professor Michael Adikwu
(2006); and joint winners Professor Akpoveta Susu and his then doctoral
student, Kingsley Abhulimen (2004).

The Nigeria Prize for
Literature and The Nigeria Prize for Science are part of Nigeria LNG Limited’s
numerous contributions towards building a better Nigeria.