Calling all game-changers, innovators and social impact leaders!
SAP and Google Cloud are asking for your revenue-generating ideas that use data
analytics and machine learning to power circular economy businesses. According to the Global Footprint Network, the global demand for
resources was 1.7 times more than what the Earth could support in 2018; by
2030, we may need two Earths to sustain our way of life. In response, the
concept of the circular economy, where consumption and emissions are minimised
through recycling, reuse, refurbishing and repair, has gained ground at a
global level. According to estimates, a circular economy that increases social
well-being and economic output while fostering a healthy environment could
generate $4.5 trillion of new economic output by 2030. Sunil Geness, Head of CSR at SAP Africa, said urgent action is
needed to ensure the world corrects to a more sustainable path and achieves the
ambitions set out in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. “As
a purpose-driven organisation, SAP is deeply committed to embracing the
challenge of environmental responsibility and to put technology, people and
passion to work to solve some of the bigger issues of the digital age. Through
our partnership with Google, we are hoping the launch of the Circular Economy
2030 initiative will ignite a new wave of inspiration and innovation among
social entrepreneurs as we search for data-driven and technology-enabled
solutions that can help the world run better and improve people’s lives.” As part of the Circular Economy 2030 initiative, SAP and Google
Cloud are working closely with experts in the fields of circular economy and
sustainable development, including UN Environment, the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation, the World Wildlife Fund, and the Global Partnership for Sustainable
Development Data. Google Marketing Director for Africa, Mzamo Masito, said:
“We believe that with the help of modern technology, businesses can become
positive catalysts for a more sustainable future. Our partnership with SAP will
not only support social entrepreneurship but continue our commitment to
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and advancing a circular
economy.” The deadline for submissions is March 17th. Five finalists will
be selected and announced at the Google Cloud Next Conference taking place from
April 9th to 11th and will compete in a hackathon taking place in San Francisco
on April 12th. Judges will look for original ideas that can benefit any aspect
of the global economy. Proposals must include a viable business model, a vision
for advancing Sustainable Development Goal #12 (Responsible Consumption and
Production) and should use both SAP and Google Cloud solutions to enable the
idea at scale. The winner will receive more than $100 000 in prize money and
benefits, including participation in Google Cloud for Startups’ Bootcamp and
one-on-one mentorship, and will be announced at SAPPHIRE NOW on May 7th. The
remaining four finalists will each receive $25 000 in prize money.

For more information and to apply, please visit
http://g.co/Circular2030 before March 17th.