WorldStage Newsonline—-As Nigerians  go to poll across the country, Some domestic observers have expressed concern over lateness in the arrival of sensitive materials and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)electoral officers in several parts of the country. At  polling unit 006 in Karu, Nasarawa State, many voters arrive at the polling unit as early as 6.20 a.m. and still waiting as at press time and becoming agitated. One of the domestic observers, Mr Jude Ohuakanwa from Global Policy Advocacy and Leadership Initiatives said he was at the Bakina Ado Primary School at 7 a.m. and saw a mammoth crowdof voters. He said “as a matter of fact, I doubt if the school compound can accommodate the number of voters.It is 7.30 a.m. and there is no shadow of any INEC officials, ad hoc staff or party agents here. “The only people that reported early here are the civil defence officials,” Ohuakanwa said. He could not understand the delay and hopes the election would eventually hold in the unit. Another domestic observer, Mr Anthony Ode of the Justice Development Peace Commission,said the electoral officers were late for about an hour. According to him, the lateness will discourage some voters as most of them want to vote and go back to their houses. Ode said “as at 8.54 a.m., no electoral officer is in sight.” Mr Issac Ngbede, another domestic observer from the African Centre for Entrepreneurship and InformationDevelopment, was impressed at the turnout of voters but worried at the lateness of the INEC officials. He, however, said “the process would be conducted peacefully.” One of the eligible voters, Mr Godwin Penang, who said he had been at the polling unit before 7 a.m. added thathe would not be discouraged but would wait for as long as it would be possible for him to cast his vote. As at 10:30am voting materials had not been deployed to a lot of areas in Kaduna state, including the Government House polling unit, Sabon Kawo, parts of Igabi, Chikun, and Kajuru local government areas. However, in Manchok Registration Area Centre, Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State, voting had commenced, while election materials were yet to arrive polling units as at 9 am in Kajuru and Chikun local government areas. In Kaura, the election commenced around 8:30 am in most of the Polling Units, including Anguwan Aba Dube, Anguwan Usman Mutuwa, Anguwan Liman. As at 8: am, electoral material for three Polling Units were still at the Manchok Registration Area Centre due to absence of security personnel who did not turn up until around 8:30 am. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Supervisor, Manchok RAC, Mr Cletus Joseph, attributed the delay to the absence of security personnel for some of the polling units. Large turnout of voters and late arrival of election materials characterized Saturday’s Presidential and National Elections in parts of Delta State. However, voters have expressed their determination to wait and cast their votes despite the late arrival of materials and officials in the polling stations visited. At Uzoigwe Primary School School Ward 9 Asaba, which serves as Registration Area Centre (RAC) and a polling station with 15 polling units, voters trouped out to cast their votes. At 9am voting had yet to start at the polling station while election material had yet to leave the centre for other polling units. Voters in some parts of Enugu State capital have decried the absence and late arrival of electoral officers and materials at various polling units in the Our correspondent monitoring the Presidential and National Assembly elections in Enugu on Saturday reports that voters were seen stranded at some of the polling stations visited. As at 9.45a.m, no official of the Independent National Electoral Commission was on ground at Abakpa Nike, Emene, Transekulu, Okpara Square, and University of Nigeria Enugu Campus (UNEC). As at 10.10a.m materials have yet to arrive at Abakpa Nike and Transekulu all in Enugu East LGA. It is also a similar situation at UNEC and Okpara Square as voters who came out in their numbers were complaining about the development. 