The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged the Department of State Services (DSS) to  immediate release Mr Ben Bako, its Director of Media Committee for Kaduna State Governorship Campaign Organisation. The party made the call at a news conference addressed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan on Monday in Abuja. Ologbondiyan said that the party was concerned over the alleged arrest and detention of Bako by the Department of State Services (DSS) since last weekend, describing it as unwarranted. He said that the party was aware that Bako’s arrest was a prelude to the alleged planned clampdown of PDP campaign officials to instil fear in the people. “We want the Buhari-led Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to note that their plot, as well as the continued detention of Bako, is setting the stage for a vehement resistance by the people, which is capable of triggering crisis and disrupting the fragile peace in Kaduna State. “The PDP, therefore, demand the immediate and unconditional release of Bako by the DSS without hurt or further harassment. “The PDP will hold the APC and the Presidency directly responsible should any harm, whatsoever, befall any of our leaders or members, particularly in Kaduna State ahead of the elections. “Kaduna State is a PDP stronghold and our party is not ready to stomach any further harassment of our leaders, officials and members, before, during and after the general elections.” Ologbondiyan said that the PDP had also been informed of plots to track and detain the party’s critical stakeholders in other parts of the country, so as to put them out of circulation before and during the general elections. He said the party completely rejected the ongoing clampdown, unlawful arrest and detention of its officials and members in various parts of the country by the APC-led government ahead of the general elections. “This is highly provocative and a direct invitation to anarchy and a political crisis that is capable of derailing our democratic order.”