East African governors of the African Development Bank on
Wednesday commended the institution for approving transformative projects
valued at $13.8 billion since 2010. The projects in ICT, education, public finance, energy,
transport, water and sanitation sectors, make the institution “a trusted
partner for delivering innovative solutions” the governors noted during
consultative meetings with the institution’s president and senior management. Governors and representatives from Burundi, Djibouti, Rwanda,
Comoros, Sudan, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda attended the
high-level meetings. The meetings were an opportunity for Governors to pitch regional
needs and highlight country-specific opportunities. According to Makki Mohamed Abdelrahim Alian, temporary Governor
for Sudan, “Sudan needs the Bank’s High 5s because it addresses Sudan’s needs.”
Alian said through the Feed Africa program “Africa can feed itself and
feed the world, as well as pioneer healthy food production, which is in demand
globally.” Ahmed Shide, Ethiopia’s Finance Minister said, “Ethiopia is
keen to advance regional integration and consolidate its peace agreement with
Eritrea in order to leverage the Bank’s support for regional infrastructure
projects. There are many opportunities to work with the Bank on our ambitious
infrastructure projects.” In response, Bank President Akinwumi Adesina said: “There’s
no doubt that the landmark signing of the peace accord between Ethiopia and
Eritrea has opened up a lot more opportunities for investments by the Bank in
the Horn of Africa.” Adesina acknowledged the leading role of the 13 East African
regional member states of the African Development Bank Group in the economic
transformation of the continent.  With
340 million inhabitants, the region is Africa’s fastest growing economic bloc
(growing well above the continent’s 4% average growth rate), recording GDP
growth of 5.7% in 2018 and projected to grow at 5.9% and 6.1% in 2019 and 2020
respectively. “Despite this progress, important challenges remain,
hampering the quest to eradicate poverty and galvanize growth and economic
development in the region,” Celestin Monga, the Bank’s Chief Economist
cautioned. He observed that the region remained prone to peace and security
threats, climate change, rising public debt and uneven infrastructure
development. Gabriel Negatu, Director General, East Africa Regional
Development and Business Delivery Office, showcased several Bank-funded
projects.  The Bank Group’s current East
Africa portfolio is estimated at $11.6 billion. In 2018, its sovereign and
non-sovereign approvals stood at $2.18 billion. The Bank’s regional projects include Africa’s largest wind power
plant in Lake Turkana, Kenya, and the Ethiopia-Kenya power interconnection
facility. In Kenya, the Bank’s Last Mile Connectivity project has provided
electricity connections to the grid for over 3 million people. The Bugagali
hydropower project in Uganda has doubled the country’s electricity supply,
reduced bulk tariffs by 66%, and improved affordability for citizens. According to Negatu, the Addis-Nairobi-Mombasa road has contributed
a 5-fold increase to trade volumes between Kenya and Ethiopia. In the technology space, the Bank-financed 1,900 km submarine
cable project from Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania to Seychelles has made access to the
internet significantly faster. The Rwanda Innovation Fund has also helped
position Rwanda as a hub for ICT services in the region. The Bank announced the
second annual Africa Investment Forum in Johannesburg in November 2019.
According to Stella Kilonzo, Senior Director of the Africa Investment Forum,
“building a strong pipeline of bankable projects well ahead of the forum
is a priority.” Timothy Turner, Group Chief Risk Officer showcased new financial
products aimed at optimizing the Bank’s balance sheet, including
“Room2Run”, an innovative $1 billion synthetic securitization
portfolio. Governors voiced their support for a general capital increase
and offered country-specific testimonials about the transformative impact of
the Bank’s projects and investment. Swazi Tshabalala, Vice President & Chief Finance Officer
said, “a general capital increase will boost the Bank’s comparative
advantage in governance, resource mobilization, regional integration,
infrastructure and private sector development.”

In his closing remarks, President Adesina
thanked the Governors for their continued trust in the the Bank. “Your
presence here matters. Your voice is critical. Your support is also crucial. I
have no doubt you will continue to speak for Africa.”