WorldStage Newsonline– A Coalition of Civil Society Organization in Kaduna State comprising hundreds of youths, women and the physically challenged, staged a peaceful demonstration on Friday to support President Muhammadu Buhari over the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen over an allegation of none declaration. President Buhari had appointed Justice Tanko Mohammed on acting capacity as the trial of Onnoghen is set to commence at the Code of Conduct Bureau. Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai who addressed the protesters in front of Government House, Kaduna backed the President’s action, describing Justice Onnoghen as “shameless” for still holding on to power. The governor said the President did the right thing by asking Onnoghen to step aside, pending investigation. He, however, noted the CJN being a “shameless man”, was not comfortable with the anti-corruption fight of the President. He added it was unfortunate that some Nigerians were adopting some “technicalities” to delay the prosecution of the CJN. El-Rufai said: “The President did the right thing by asking him(Onnoghen) to step aside pending investigation. It is the proper thing to do. It is what is done in every organised and civilized society. “Unfortunately, some people in Nigeria are trying to make white black and black, white. They are using technicalities to delay bringing this man to Justice. Mr President did not remove Onnoghen from office.” He said in respect for the judiciary, he should step aside so that the charges against him can be investigated. He said, “But the man is shameless, he does not want to go, but it is time for Nigerians to come all out and tell him he must go. Our judiciary must be clean. Our judiciary must consist of judges who cannot be bought.” The anti-Onnoghen protesters who came out as early as 7.00am, marched from the Sokoto Road Roundabout, a few metres away from Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House, Kaduna,  where they converged. The protesters demanded the immediate resignation of the CJN from office to save the judiciary. They were carrying placards with such inscriptions as “Onnoghen should face trial”; “the law must be allowed to take its cause: Onnoghen just go please,” “Chief Onnoghen is a disgrace to the judiciary,” “we must support Mr. President’s” “Onnoghen, save the integrity of the judiciary and go now.” Spokesman of  the CSOs in the State, Abdullahi Abdulrauf, said, “We are doing this because of the competency and integrity of President Muhammadu Buhari.” He said the CJN should be made to resign and face prosecution. Abdulrauf then urged governor El-Rufai to convey their message to President Buhari for further action on the CJN matter. The protesters later dispersed after the governor had addressed them.