Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Sunday said he remained grateful to God for the peaceful conduct of Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections in the State. He also expressed gratitude to Ekiti people for their peaceful conduct during the election, thereby making the conduct of the election peaceful and orderly in the state. Governor Fayemi spoke at the Government House Chapel, Ado-Ekiti on Sunday, where he worshiped along with Prince Dayo Adeyeye (Senator-Elect for Ekiti Central District) and  Hon Sola Fatoba (member –Elect, House of Representatives Ekiti Central 1) and Prof Dupe Adelabu, a former Deputy Governor of the state. The Governor, who recalled that the congregation had two weeks ago, prayed for the peaceful conduct of the general elections in Ekiti State, said God had indeed answered the prayers of the people as the elections were held in a peaceful atmosphere in the state. He however sympathised with families of victims of election violence as reported in some parts of the country, while urging Nigerians to always seek for peace at all time, Governor Fayemi also urged winners in the election to be humble and focus on service delivery. He advised them to see their victory as a product of God’s grace and not as a result of their power or might. “We have every reason to thank God for the peaceful conduct of the election in Ekiti State. Two weeks ago, the congregation here raised prayer points concerning the peaceful conduct of the election in our state. And God indeed answered our prayers. “The elections held in a peaceful atmosphere in Ekiti. We pray for the repose of the lives lost during the election in some parts of the country and pray that peace will reign supreme in the country. “While I rejoice with the winners, I will also urge them to be humble realising that they could not have won by their power or might but by God’s grace. “Validation by God and the people in itself is an admonition to continue to do good, and to exhibit generosity of spirit”, he added.