WorldStage Newsonline—The National Leader of the All Progressive
Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has commended Nigerians for the re-election
of  President Muhammadu Buhari, saying by
doingso,they had shown that they believed Nigeria should move forward to its
better future instead of returning to the mistaken ways of our past. “On Saturday February 23 the Presidential Election was held. It
was a fair and honest exercise that permitted the full expression of the
sovereign will of the Nigerian people. In a decisive manner, the electorate
have asked President Muhammadu Buhari to serve a second term. You the Nigerian
people have given him a clear, indisputable mandate to lead us for another four
years,”he saidin a statement. “In re-electing President Buhari, you have shown that you
believe Nigeria should move forward to its better future instead of returning
to the mistaken ways of our past. You have chosen victory over defeat, hope
over despair, prosperity over poverty. You have elected the path toward a
greater Nigerian instead of that toward our lesser selves. “For this collective act of courage and enlightened optimism, we
can do nothing but express our most profound gratitude and thanks to the
millions of APC members and to all Nigerians for their patience, and their
commitment to our democratic electoral process. “This election represents a historic step forward. When history
is being made, often its authors do not realize the larger dimensions and
consequences of their actions because they tend to be somewhat blinded by the
press of daily events. Yet, I believe as the years unfold and the history of
Nigeria is later written, future generations will look fondly on this moment as
the time when Nigerians, in strong and clear accord, affirmed their belief in
our nation’s greatness and in the path that President Buhari and the APC have
taken to reach that greatness. “With this election, Nigeria signals to the world our unalloyed
embrace of democracy and our unflinching determination to perfect this
democracy. While this election was free and fair, we also must acknowledge the
isolated incidents of violence. Nigerians were killed and injured during what
otherwise was an exemplary democratic procession. Such things should never
happen and do us no good. “We must dedicate ourselves to the principle that elections are
meant to better all of our lives and thus there is no reason why elections
should result in the impairment of even a single life. Let us work even harder
to ensure that the March governorship and state assembly elections be devoid of
such unfortunate incidents. “No doubt Nigeria has its challenges, but it stands undaunted as
a nation. Nigeria is stronger today under the leadership of President Buhari
who continues to lay the critical reforms that constitute the foundation for
durable, broadly-shared economic development. “President Buhari has marked progress against the terror of Boko
Haram. In his second term, he will continue to install peace where there is
unrest and violence and he will not cease in this task until Boko Haram and its
evil brethren are no more. “He will continue to battle corruption head on. Given the
president’s fortitude and determination, I know corruption will lose this
battle and receded from being a major factor in our public arena. “This current leadership owes our youth and all Nigerians to
build a political culture of civility, tolerance and equality. “The tasks before us are hard. We dare not underestimate the
challenges that await, but the rewards that beckon are profound. The people of
Nigeria are industrious and brave. The ground beneath us is fecund and it is
ours. Our plans are visionary and bold. Our goals are just. And the president
you have re-elected is honest and true. “The confidence I have in this positive confluence of
leadership, people, resources and ideas is an unwavering but also a glad and
comforting thing. If we put ourselves to it, there is nothing that another
nation has done for itself that we cannot achieve for ourselves. “There is no aspect of national greatness and achievement that
lies beyond our reach. Thus, we should look forward to the next four years with
hearts filled with hope and hands ready to work. Only God can create the
Promised Land. Yet, with God’s help, we endeavour to make of Nigeria a land of
greater promise and prosperity for all her children. “With President Buhari at the helm for four more years, I know
we can achieve this. Congratulations to President Buhari on your re-election. “Congratulations to the APC for the fine showing across all the
February 23 elections. More importantly, congratulations to the Nigerian people
for the wisdom and courage shown in deciding that the best of Nigeria still
resides in our future and that President Buhari is the man you best trust to
lead us into that future. Posterity shall reward you for what you established
on Election Day.  

“Today the sun shines brighter on Nigeria. If we
work hard, tomorrow we shall be able to say the same thing.”