Electricity customers in Awka, Anambra State and Owerri, Imo
State will soon begin to enjoy improved power supply going by the level of
investments the Enugu Electricity Distribution PLC (EEDC) has made towards
improving its electricity infrastructure in the two states. These investments include the construction of a 1 x 7.5MVA
Injection Substation at ABS, Awka, and upgrading of the 7.5MVA Injection
Substation at Agu Awka to a 15MVA; while in Imo State, approval has been
obtained for the construction of a new Oguta 33KV line valued at over N140
million, which will radiate from Egbu Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)
station. The Head Communications, EEDC, Mr. Emeka Ezeh, who made this
known to newsmen in a release issued on Wednesday, said that the projects were
necessitated by the challenges of poor electricity supply within the areas due
to over loaded feeders. The 1 x 7.5MVA Injection Substation at ABS, Awka, which will be
ready for commissioning within the first quarter of the year, is expected to
improve electricity supply to Okpuno, Isuaniocha, Mgbakwu, Urum and Amanuke
communities and the university community. The upgrade of Agu Awka Injection Substation is expected to
address the electricity supply challenges and boost supply to Awka Industrial
Layout, Ifite, Agu-Awka GRA, parts of Nkwere Awka, UNIZIK, Amansea, Ebenebe,
Ugbenu and Ugbene communities. Also in Owerri, work will soon commence on the new Oguta 33KV
line which will take care of customers in New Owerri, World Bank, Concord Hotel
area, Iret e Community and industrialists within the area.  Effort has equally been made to radiate a
dedicated feeder to improve availability to Alex Aluminium and other
industrialists within the cluster. It will be recalled that last year, EEDC delivered major network
enhancement projects ranging from deloading of feeders, deployment of relief
transformers and replacement of failed transformers. In Enugu State, EEDC
completed and commissioned the 1 x 7.5 MVA Nike Lake Injection Substation at
Nike, which greatly improved electricity supply to the entire Nike area and
parts of Abakpa. In a related development, EEDC constructed three feeders to
improve supply to her customers in Nsukka, they are the UNN 33KV, Nru 33KV and
Wilson 11KV feeders. This has significantly improved power supply to the area
and resulted to the deloading of Eha Amufu 33KV line. According to Ezeh, the company x-rayed its network, identifying
areas that need critical attention with a view to strategically address them.
It is not possible to attend to all the challenges at the same time, but there
is a conscious effort by the business to deal with them and that has informed
the investments in the network. These investments underscore our organisation’s commitment to
strategically addressing the power supply needs of our customers, we are
therefore hoping that they will reciprocate this gesture by ensuring they pay
their electricity bills as and when due. It is also hoped that 
they join hands with the EEDC in safeguarding the power installations
serving them from being vandalized, and desist from acts such as meter bypass
and energy theft.