WorldStage
Newsonline– The Senator-elect for the Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Dr.
Uba Sani has pledged to be a true representative of  his constituency and the state  in the 9th Senate of the National Assembly. Sani, a
candidate of the All  Progressives
Congress got 355,242 votes to defeat the incumbent senator Shehu Sani of the
Peoples Redemption Party  who got 70,613
votes while the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Lawal Adamu got 195,497 in
the Saturday poll. The incumbent
had since called for the cancellation of the result, saying it was
characterised by irregularities. He also hinted
that his party might challenge the outcome of the election at the tribunal. However, Sani
while addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Kaduna said he was ready and
prepared to meet the defeated incumbent senator at the tribunal. He explained
that he was even surprised that the incumbent senator on  the platform of the “PRP who had no structure
anywhere in the state could score as much as 70,613 votes.” He reminded
the senator that the Senate of the Federal Republic was “not a popularity
test chamber” but where to make laws for Nigerians. Sani said his
mandate at the 9th Senate was  see how he
could make law that would benefit the good people of his constituency and the
entire state. According to
him, he will be a true representative and selfless in the pursuit of progress
and the development to the zone. He also said
he would team up with his other colleagues from the state to ensure that the
government secure the $350m dollars that was rejected by the 8th Senate. The
senator-elect said: “The people have spoken. Our people spoke very loudly
and decisively. And the message is crystal clear: Uba Sani is our choice for
the 9th Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He has our mandate. “I want
to make a solemn pledge to the good people of Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone: I
will be your true representative. “I will
be selfless in pursuit of the things that will bring progress and development
to the zone. “I will
sponsor bills and motions that will address key challenges in the zone. “I will
work effectively with the Kaduna State Government to make life more abundant
for our people. ” I will
use my contacts to attract investors and development agencies to our zone.

“But
far and above all, I will be a Senator for all. The elections are over.”