As Lagosians get ready for the APC presidential rally on Saturday, the Lagos State Government has reversed its earlier plan close some roads for President Muhammadu Buhari, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate. The state’s Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Ladi Lawanson, wko disclosed this  at a news conference in Alausa, said the earlier statement announcing diversion and road closures had been reviewed, and residents were now free to go about their businesses. Lawanson, who is also a member of the transport sub-committee for the Presidential visit and the APC rally, said Lagosians should jettison an earlier announcement by the committee to the effect that there would be road closures. He said: “Lagosians have been very apprehensive that there will be traffic gridlock and we got a lot of feedback that we intend to grind Lagos to a halt. “People are apprehensive; they think we are going to shut down Lagos; they think movement will be restricted and they are bracing themselves for what they anticipate will be the hardship that would be visited on them by the president’s visit and our own activities. “The purpose of this news conference is to clarify that and to state emphatically that there will be from zero to minimal adverse effect of the President’s visit tomorrow. “I repeat, there will be between zero to the barest minimum amount of disruptions to the normal movement that Lagosians undertake on a Saturday. “So, there will not be any road closures in Lagos tomorrow and Lagosians are free to go about their normal businesses tomorrow, Saturday,” Lawanson said. He said adequate arrangement had been firmed up to ensure free flow of traffic, but that residents should expect tight security around the routes which the President is expected to pass through in the course of his visit, and the venue of the rally. “We will just like to communicate that because we are expecting a high calibre personality no less a person than the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the normal security precautions that attend a visit of this nature should be expected. “The President will visit Lagos on Saturday with the full retinue of security aides that protect him and his entourage, but there will not be any road closures and there will be zero to minimal disruptions of normal activities,” the Commissioner said.