The Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, has urged Ekitis to vote en masse for President Mohammadu Buhari in next week’s presidential election in order to save the state from needless sufferings. Erelu Fayemi disclosed this in Itapa Ekiti on Wednesday while leading Ekiti women and youth on a road show in support of the Buhari/Osunbajo Presidential campaign, said the state would be subjected to all forms of ridicule before getting what is due to it in Abuja should the the opposition party triumph in the election. She pointed out that said Ekiti State had benefited tremendously within the last three months her husband, Dr. Kayode Fayemi assumed office, through cordial working relationship with the federal government. The road show moved through Itapa, Oye, Ilupeju, Ikole, Ode and Omuo Ekiti. Erelu Fayemi said all the federal government projects in the state including the rail line and the ongoing federal secretariat, federal housing estate will become reality once President Buhari gets re-elected. “Since your governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi came on board, he had established good relationship with the federal government and we have started seeing the gains. ” The APC government in the state have being paying salaries and pensions regularly since inception in October 2018. Our workers now get their salaries as and when due unlike the previous government that owed workers several months of unpaid wages.. At the various points, Erelu fayemi and her team took time to sensitise the elderly citizens on voting procedures with sample of the ballot papers. “When you get to the polling booth, don’t look for Buhari’s picture or name on the ballot. Look at the symbol of our party, which is the broom and put your fore finger in front to avoid voided votes. It had been noticed that using of the thumb cause a lot of voided votes because of the smearing that occur with its use, she advised. Bemoaning the high incidences of void votes in Ekiti, the first lady urged women to embrace the ongoing voter education by APC and other non-government organisations to be properly guided on how to vote rightly. “Void votes are high in Ekiti and it is common among our elderly women. Our party has begun massive campaign to guide you aright. “I know that an average Ekiti man loves the dividends of democracy we are getting Under President Buhari and our governor and you want them to continue. ” It is necessary for you not to waste the votes you want to give to President Buhari. So, look at the ballot properly and place your fore finger inside the box in front of the broom, the logo of APC and we shall all reap the benefits of the Buhari’s second term”, she assured.