WorldStage NewsOnline—- President Muhammadu Buhari has called on Nigerians to have faith in the ability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free, fair and credible elections. The President who stated this during a live broadcast on Friday urged Nigeians to believe and encourage INEC to fulfill and honour this responsibility it owes to our country. He asked  all Nigerians with voting cards to participate in defining the future of the nation by exercising their democratic rights during the Saturday’s elections. “I say this because elections are the cornerstone of representative governance. And voting constitutes the highest and best expression of the sovereign will of the people to choose the government that best represents them. It is only upon the freely expressed will of the people that government truly dedicated to the welfare, rights and interests of the people can be founded. ” Do not allow anyone to discourage you from the exercise of your rights as citizens and voters tomorrow. “To vote means that you believe in Nigeria and the excellent things the future holds for this nation and its people. ” No matter our political leanings, we all believe in Nigeria, in the noble principles for which it stands and in the values we strive for our beloved nation to uphold. ” All who are able, must vote so that we may better perfect this democracy and continue to build the greater nation we seek,” he said. He charged Nigeians not be afraid of rumours of violence and unrest, adding that the security agencies had worked diligently to ensure  adequate security during the polls. “You will be able to vote in an atmosphere of openness and peace, devoid of fear from threat or intimidation,” Buhari stated. The President assured the  International and domestic monitors and observers of  safety and freedom of movement  to perform their important functions. “As we thank domestic monitors and observers for their contributions to our democracy, we also thank the international groups for the friendship and concern they have demonstrated to our nation. “We appreciate their efforts in encouraging us to further entrench and strengthen our democracy,” he said. Buhari said: “Tomorrow is an encounter with history in which you, the people, shall affirm your collective belief in our national greatness and in our future. ” I ask that you embrace and hold on to the importance of the moment soon to be upon us.”