Following the postponement of the Feb. 16 and March 2 elections by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) Directorate of Election Planning and Monitoring has urged the INEC to be   more open in its various activities ahead of the new dates. The party urged the commission to be open in its dealings ahead of the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections. Mr. Babatunde Fashola, Director of the Directorate and Minister of Power, Works and Housing made the demand at a news conference on Sunday in Abuja. He was reacting to the postponement of the elections by INEC. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had a few hours to commencement of the presidential and National Assembly elections, announced the rescheduling  by one week of the elections earlier scheduled for Feb.16. By the postponement, the Presidential and National Assembly elections now come up on Feb. 23, while the Governorship and State House of Assembly elections come up on March 9. Yakubu had said the decision to postpone the elections was taken after a meeting with INEC Commissioners, citing “logistics’’ problems as issues that prompted the postponement. He said the decision was further necessitated after reviewing the level of the commission’s preparedness for the exercise. He stressed that postponing the elections was a difficult decision, but was necessary for successful delivery of the elections and to consolidate on Nigeria’s democracy. However, Fashola  said there was need for the commission to keep Nigerians updated on preparations for the rescheduled elections. He also demanded more transparency. “As a result of the common pain shared by us all, we demand greater openness and transparency in the Commission’s preparations ahead of Saturday 23rd February 2019 elections. “We believe that members of the public should know what steps INEC have taken with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to assess, take inventory of materials and what their conditions are,” he said.