Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has congratulated
President Mohammadu Buhari over his re-election as President of the country for
a second term. Governor Fayemi said the re-election of the President is an
attestation to the fact that Nigerians appreciate his efforts at making life
more comfortable for the people of the country in the last four years. Dr Fayemi who described President Buhari as a focused,
compassionate and sincere leader with genuine concern for the overall good of
the citizenry, said the Nigerian electorate have demonstrated that given a
choice, they would readily choose a sincere leader who cares for their
wellbeing above other considerations. He said the electorate have again demonstrated that power truly
belongs to the people. According to him, the victory is a confirmation of the
people’s trust in President Buhari and the APC-led government, adding that the
President would not take the trust for granted. Dr Fayemi said: “On behalf of my family, the government and the
good people of Ekiti State, the Land of Honour, I heartily congratulate our
President for this historic re-election as President for a second term. “No doubt, it has been a very tough battle, but the people of
Nigeria have spoken in clear terms. They have chosen to reward Mr President’s
sincerity of purpose with another term of office. “Regardless of what anybody might say, the Nigerian electorate
has demonstrated a high level of sophistication. They have shown that they have
the capacity to sieve through electoral promises and determine a leader that
will serve their interest better. “The Nigerian people know President Buhari as a honest leader
and have, through their votes, demonstrated their trust in his ability to take
them to the next level of development and prosperity.

“It is a new day and a new season and I
congratulate Mr President for the victory and the entire Nigerian people for
their courage and steadfastness and for their determination to deepen democracy
in the country.” Governor Fayemi added.