In a bid to ensure free, fair and credible elections, the Centre for Policy Advocacy and Leadership Development (CPALD), has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct an audit of its result sheets and ballot papers before conducting the rescheduled election.
INEC had on Saturday shifted the Presidential and National Assembly Election earlier slated for Feb. 16 to Feb. 23, while Governorship and State Houses of Assembly poll scheduled for March 2, was shifted to March 9.
CPALD Executive Director, Mrs Tosin Adeyanju, made the remark in a statement on Monday in Abuja.
Adeyanju commended INEC for its courage in shifting the election.
“CPALD in collaboration with Independent Foreign Observers wishes to commend the courageous display by INEC in averting a situation where the credibility of the general election will have been called to question.
“The display by INEC is highly commendable and reinforces the assurances given by the Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu that the election will be free, fair and credible.
“It is, therefore, our considered opinion that in shifting by one week the election, INEC has demonstrated that it aims to deliver a world standard election in Nigeria.
“This is commendable and a testament of the impartiality of the electoral umpire,’’ she said.
Adeyanju said CPALD was pleased with the action of INEC in ensuring that every vote would indeed count as Nigerians go to the poll to elect leaders into various positions of authority.
She encouraged all eligible voters to come out in their numbers to exercise their franchise in the Presidential and National Assembly Election, as well as Governorship and State Houses of Assembly Election.
“It is our opinion that it behooves on all well-meaning Nigerians to rise to the occasion by ensuring that their votes count in the election and also to avoid practices that will bring the electoral process to disrepute.
“Various stakeholders are also urged to support INEC in its quest to deliver free, fair, and credible election that Nigerians will be proud of,’’ she said.