The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed,
has said President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory 
in last Saturday’s presidential election symbolizes the triumph of the
ordinary Nigerians over the elite. The Minister made the remarks in Abuja on Thursday when he
received the management of his ministry, who came to congratulate him on the
victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at last week’s Presidential and
National Assembly elections. “Last weekend’s election is a direct contest between ordinary
Nigerians and the elite, most of whom are rent seekers. Of course, the ordinary
Nigerians have won!” he said. Alhaji Mohammed said the President’s victory is a confirmation
of the fact that ordinary Nigerians appreciate the pro-people policies of the
present administration which, he said, is doing more with far less resources. “Overall, this government is doing more with less and is
restoring decency and integrity to governance. Like the New York Times said,
the re-election of President Buhari is a referendum on honesty. There is no
better way to put it,” he stated. While reeling out the policies that endeared President Buhari to
the ordinary Nigerians, the Minister said under the Social Investment Programme,
the government feeds 9.3 million school children everyday and some 500,000
unemployed graduates have been employed under N-Power, in addition to some
300,000 families who are benefitting from the Conditional Cash Transfer. He said in a deliberate effort to boost the Small and Medium
Enterprises to contribute significantly to the nation’s economy, the Buhari
Administration gives out interest-free loans of between N10,000 and N100,000
under the TraderMoni and the MarketMoni Schemes to small business owners. “Pensioners who have been left in the lurch are being paid, and
I am talking of ex-workers of the Nigerian Airways, NITEL and former Biafran
Policemen, among others. The former Nigeria Airways staffers were so delighted
that they held a rally in support of the President before the elections,”
Alhaji Mohammed said. He said the fight against corruption is being institutionalized
with a number of policies that include Treasury Single Account (TSA),
Whistleblower policy, and that it has led to the recovery of huge amounts of
money as well as property from looters. The Minister therefore enjoined the citizenry to continue to
support the Buhari Administration in building of a strong, secure,
economically-buoyant and corrupt-free society. On the APC’s victory in Kwara, the Minister thanked the
management of his ministry for appreciating his ‘modest’ effort in delivering
Kwara State from the grip of a crippling hegemony. “I must stress – and I have said this before – that the credit
for the liberation of Kwara goes to the good people of State who, despite
efforts to compromise them, refused to sell their votes. A simple slogan, O To
Ge (Enough is Enough), captured the determination of the people to vote out
those who have held them down for decades. And that is precisely what they
did,” he said. In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of
Information and Culture, Deaconess Grace Isu-Gekpe, said the entire management
and staff of the Ministry are proud of the Minister for his invaluable contribution
to the victory of the APC at the presidential and National Assembly elections
in Kwara State.