The National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) says it is embarking on local production of medical and pharmaceutical products, to improve access to healthcare in the country. Dr Obi Adigwe, Director-General (DG) of NIPRD, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. He said the production of the products would also boost socio-economic growth in the country. According to him, the country is blessed with numerous medicinal plants with huge medical and pharmaceutical potentials that were not being exploited. Adigwe said the institute had already produced a sickle cell drug which would soon be in the market. “We are harnessing abundant natural resources with phyto-medical and ethno-pharmaceutical potential for research and production of pharmaceutical products. “We have come up with one of the best phyto-medicines for sickle cell anaemia called NIPRISAN, currently under licensing agreement with May and Baker. “What we did in the past was conducting research and taking it to the market. Now, we have decided to partner with those who are good in business to help market the products of our research. “Later in the year, NIPRISAN would be in the market, and it will be very effective for treating sickle cell anemia,’’ he said. The DG said that NIPRD had access to research that was ignored in the past, which the institute would now start transforming into finished products. He said that the focus was to achieve a remarkable improvement in healthcare and also improve the socio-economic conditions of Nigerians. “NIPRD has done a review of some of the research. “We prioritised those that can improve access to healthcare, while at the same time touching on basic socio-economic indices of government, job creation, knowledge transfer, capacity building and revenue generation, for individual stakeholders and government. “Rather than wait for stakeholders to come to us, we have started going out to engage them about our numerous life-changing initiatives,’’ he said. Adigwe said that NIPRD, under his watch, had also engaged some state governments on how to transform certain raw materials in their states into revenue-yielding medical products. He said that some of such materials have been identified in some specific states. “We have engaged about 10 state governors to take a new look at some of the natural resources that exist in their localities and how we can process them into finished products. “Those localities will have the capacity of their local people to build, they will start to generate revenue from those resources and they will have knowledge transfer. “An example we usually give is `eucalyptus’ in Kaduna state, an essential oil which has a strong-aromathereupatic effect. “We found out that most of the eucalyptuses in the market is imported, but Kaduna has more than 10,000 hectares of it, and NIPRD has the technology to process it,’’ he said. The NIPRD said the institute was presently engaging the Kaduna state government for partnership in that regard. He added that a similar engagement with the Katsina state government on processing of neem was ongoing. He assured that all 36 states of the federation had similar natural plants that could be exploited for health, as well as economic benefits. “Katsina state has a lot of Azadirachta indica (neem) in the wild. India makes around one billion dollars from neem every year, but in Nigeria, we use our own shade. “We have also started engaging the Katsina state government on that. We are currently at various stages of engagement with about 10 states. “New thinking has demonstrated to some of the governors that pharmaceutical research and development can actually be a big catalyst for socio-economic development. “Countries like India, China and Bangladesh have used the model and recorded varied degrees of successes,’’ he said. He emphasised that research, development and innovation were necessary to grow the economy and improve the wellbeing of the people.