WorldStage Newsonline– Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has transmitted a list of nominees for Commissioners and Special Advisers to the state House of Assembly for confirmation. A statement by the Governor’s Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, on Sunday, said the list contained 25 names of carefully picked the nominees based on their cognate experience in their respective professions. Akosile said the list comprised names of technocrats and politicians who understood the challenges of the state. He said that the “painstaking and laborious selection process” was aimed at constituting the best team that would serve the state. He said names on the list include Mr Rabiu Olowo Onaolapo, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, Prof. Akin Abayomi, Dr Idris Salako, Mr Tunji Bello, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, Mrs Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Mrs Bolaji Dada, Mr Lere Odusote, Dr Frederic Oladeinde and Mr Gbolahan Lawal. Others are Ms Adekemi Ajayi, Mr Femi George, Dr Wale Ahmed, Mr Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), Mr Hakeem Fahm, Mrs Ajibola Ponnle, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye and Mr Segun Dawodu. They also include Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Mr Sam Egube, Ms Ruth Bisola Olusanya, Mrs Aderemi Adebowale, Mr Tunbosun Alake and Mr Afolabi Ayantayo. “We took our time to pick the best hands for the tough job Lagosians have elected us to do. “The nominees for the 25 Commissioner and Special Adviser positions include women and men who have made their mark and at the zenith of their professional callings,” Akosile said. He said that the current list was the first batch, adding that consultation was going on with regard to the complete number of the cabinet members. Akosile said that the new cabinet would be unique, because of its diversity. “We have a blend of youth, who are under 40, among nominees for Commissioners and Special Advisers. “Women too are well represented in the list. We believe Lagos deserves the best and we cannot give the people anything less than that. “There are 17 men and eight women that will be sworn in as members of the State Executive Council,” he said. According to him, the state House of Assembly is expected to carry out a screening of the nominees to set the machinery of governance in full swing.