WorldStage NewsOnline—-The Lagos Goverment through the Lagos State Traditional Sports Association, on Tuesday said the state would introduce Traditional Sports in schools in the state to improve students’ mental alertness. Mrs Abiola Ogunbiyi, Chairman, Lagos State Traditional Sports Association, who became chairman of the association five months ago,  said the association was currently working on creating awareness on the benefits of embracing the sports. She said athletes who would be deployed to schools to train students and pupils were equally undergoing training after which the sports would be introduced to schools. According to her, the sports should be introduced to children in schools because each of the sports like Abula, Ayo, Langa, Kokowa and Dambe had some intellectual and health benefits which children must tap from. “We are planning to introduce these traditional sports to both public and private schools within the state. “This will groom the children to improve their mental alertness, speed, stamina and strength, while the spirit of team building will equally be improved on. “Ayo plays the part in improving mental alertness; Kokowa which is local wrestling will improve children speed and strength while Abula known as volleyball strengthens team building. “All these will play out in their academics when they begin to develop themselves on the sports as soon as they are introduced to them. “We are considering leaving Ayo out for children below seven years of age because of the fear of mistakingly swallowing the seeds. “We know most parents and adults do not know the benefits of embracing the sports, so, we are presently creating awareness, going to schools, churches, social gatherings and all to do this,” she said. Ogunbiyi urged Lagos citizens to embrace the sports as they were indigenous sports and they revolve round the culture of the state, adding that each of the sports had worked positively for the ancestors. She said the association was working tirelessly to compliment the state government’s effort at making the state a sports hub for Africa.