The Executive Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has commended leading telecommunications services provider, Airtel Nigeria, for upgrading and modernizing its network infrastructure in Enugu as well as rolling out its 4G services. Ugwuanyi spoke while a team of Airtel employees led by its Regional Operations Director, South Region, Dapo Dosunmu, paid him a courtesy visit at the State House. He thanked Airtel for modernizing its network, noting that the initiative will help boost personal productivity, trade and commerce as well as provide solid platforms for people to become successful in their respective endeavours. The governor later attended a consumer launch event at the Airtel Regional Office on Tuesday, 7th May, in Enugu, where he formally launched Airtel’s network 4G services in the State. While thanking the Governor for his support and for creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive, Dapo Dosunmu, Regional Operations Director, South Region, who represented the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Airtel Nigeria, said Airtel is committed to the State “and will continue to connect much more towns to our 4G network. “This is not just the launch of 4G in Enugu but a total modernization of the Airtel Network Infrastructure in Enugu with new and innovative offerings that will empower and offer real value to the great people of this State,” he said. Also speaking at the event, the Odezuligbo III, Nike Kingdom and Igwe of Enugu, Dr. (Barr) J.U Nnaji, said he is impressed by Airtel’s commitment to Enugu state. “Airtel has been a good friend of the palace. I am happy about the strides Airtel has made with the launch of 4G services in Enugu. “I usually watch your adverts and I enjoy them so much. I am glad to associate with whatever you are doing in Enugu and I give you my full blessings on the unveiling of your 4G network.” To connect to the Airtel 4G network in Enugu, a telephone consumer would need a 4G enabled device and also expected to upgrade his or her SIM to a 4G SIM to enjoy the service. The upgrade of one’s SIM to a 4G SIM is free and can be done in any Airtel’s retail outlet nationwide.