In 2017, aid to
education totaled US$ 13.2 billion, down 2% or US$288 million compared to 2016.
The figures, released by the Global Education Monitoring Report, published by
UNESCO, show the levels of aid to education continue to stagnate, growing by
only 1% per year on average since 2009. Much of the cut to total aid to education can be explained by the
United Kingdom decreasing its aid to education by 29%, of which 60% was a drop
in its allocation to basic education. From being the second largest donor to
total basic education in 2016, it has fallen to fourth place in 2017 with US$
517million. Overall, Germany tops the donor scoreboard for
aid to education, disbursing US$2 billion in 2017, followed by the United
States with $1.5 billion and France with US$1.3 billion. France
was the donor that increased its funding the most from 2016 to 2017, by a total
of US$207 million. This is in line with the announcement that France would
increase its official development assistance to 0.55% of its gross national
income by 2022. However, 58% of Germany’s and 69% of France’s aid is directed at
scholarships and imputed costs for students from developing countries to study
in their tertiary education institutions. If these items were excluded, the
remaining aid to education would have decreased even more over the past year,
by 5% or US$534 million, as aid to higher education increased, while aid to
secondary education fell by 2% and aid to basic education by 8% between 2016
and 2017. Donors
have not met their promises to keep to the UN
target of 0.7% of gross national income to foreign aid. Doing just that and
allocating 10% of that aid to primary and secondary education, would have been
enough to fill the US$39 billion dollars annual financing gap. Yet, education
has become less of a priority for development partners, with the share of
education falling from a peak of 10.7 % of total aid in 2007 to just 7.1% in
2017. Of the top ten OECD donors to education, the United Kingdom is the only
G7 country dedicating the UN target figure of 0.7% of its gross national income
to foreign aid. Antoninis says the trends are alarming. “A drop in aid to
education could be something to celebrate if it looked like it was due to
governments needing less, but this doesn’t seem to be the case. Governments in
low income countries spend, on average, 16% of their budgets on education, far
more than richer countries, and are off track meeting even the 2015 target of
universal primary education. With no action from donors to support them, it’s
even less likely that our ambitious education goal will be reached”. The fall in aid raises questions about the global commitment to
achieving SDG 4, the global education goal. An increasingly fragmented
architecture for financing education is not helping.  A new multilateral
mechanism, the International Financing Facility for Education, which aims to
lower the cost of borrowing for education for middle income countries, is
expected to be announced later this month. It is an addition to the Global
Partnership for Education, which provides grants to low income countries, and the
Education Cannot Wait fund, which focuses on emergency contexts.

Manos Antoninis,
director of the Global Education Monitoring Report  says the commitment
isn’t there. “There has been big talk about big ambitions ever since 2015 when
our new education agenda was set, and yet donors are shifting money around,
tinkering with different ways to spend a fixed sum, but not giving more.”