WorldStage Newsonline– Amnesty International has welcomed the
decision that President Adama Barrow of Gambia has commuted the death sentences
of 22 prisoners to life imprisonment. Gambia’s Attorney General and Justice Minister, Aboubacarr
Tambadou, said yesterday that President Adama Barrow has commuted the death
sentences of 22 prisoners to life imprisonment. This followed an Amnesty
International mission to Gambia to present to the authorities a series of
recommendations covering 10 areas of reform to protect and promote human
rights. The recommendations include the abolition of the death penalty and
commutation of all death sentences to terms of imprisonment. In February 2018, President Adama Barrow announced the
establishment of an official moratorium on executions. In September 2018, Gambia
ratified the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights, aiming at the abolition of the death penalty thus
becoming the 86th State Party to the treaty. Amnesty International opposes the death penalty in all cases
without exception regardless of the nature of the crime, the characteristics of
the offender, or the method used by the state to kill the prisoner. The death
penalty violates the right to life as proclaimed in the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights. It is the ultimate cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. Responding to the development, Marie-Evelyne Petrus Barry,
Amnesty International West and Central Africa Regional Director-who met with
the Gambian President last week- said: “The President’s commutation of these
death sentences to life imprisonment is an important milestone for Gambia which
is slowly and steadily moving away from the death penalty. “Less than a week ago, Amnesty International met with President
Adama Barrow who confirmed to us his commitment to outlaw this cruel punishment
– it’s good to see him take another concrete step against the death penalty. “This decision is a positive step, however we want the
authorities to go further by abolishing the death penalty for all crimes
without delay, including in the country’s future constitution. “We also hope they will implement our recommendations to repeal
draconian media laws, reform the security sector and end discrimination against
women.”