Some environmentalists and residents in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have advocated for the reintroduction of monthly sanitation and health inspectors to effectively clean up the environment. They particularly condemned the environmental degradation and pollution caused by improper waste disposals by dumping of refuse along the roads, drainage, and in rivers, which had constituted eyesore to the environment in the FCT. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondents who went to some satellite towns such as Karu, Nyany-Mararba, Wuse, and Dutse observed that there were heaps of refuse in many places in the satellite towns, which had been constituting health hazards to residents of the towns. Mr Emmanuel Yerima, an environmentalist called for reintroduction of monthly sanitation exercise and health inspectors to ensure dirt-free environment in Abuja and its environs. Yerima, who is also a member of Nigeria Environmental Society (NES), said the reintroduction of monthly sanitation exercise would aid the efforts to evacuate the volume or the magnitude of waste released daily into the environment. “There appears to be no serious organised programme for the proper management and disposal of wastes anymore in most parts of the country in spite of health effects among Nigerians. “Take a look at Mararaba area and its environs, you will agree with me that volume of wastes generated from that axis is something else. “Come to think of it, how do the people around there breathe when there is disgusting odor of decayed refuse at every corner of the road? “There is serious need for us as a nation to go back to the olden days practice where we used to have sanitary inspectors and the general sanitation,“ he said. The environmentalist, who said non evacuation of wastes posed health risk on the people, said that it was also capable of causing damage on the nation`s ecological systems. “Burnt plastics for example produce toxic substances to the ground, which in turn can pollute the environment or contaminate the ground water. “It, therefore, means when we reduce waste or handle it properly, it will reduce environmental impact, “ he said. Mr Ignitius Alfred, a banker and a resident of Mararaba told NAN that in Mararaba that decomposing heaps of refuse had constituted health hazards to some people living areas such as Mararaba, Nyanyan and Karu, Karu local government areas in Nasarawa state. According to him, the issue of refuse that litter every nook and cranny in Mararaba has become a great concern. He said that the Karu Local Government authority needed to act fast because the area “is highly populated and can lead to outbreak of diseases’’. According to him, Karu area is a gate way to many states such as Taraba, Kaduna, Bauchi, Maiduguri and Benue. Mrs Ajoke Bello, a food vendor, said the heaps of refuse had blocked the drainage system, adding that anytime it rained there was always heavy flood. According to her, it is worrisome because the rainy season is approaching and the authorities in charge are not showing any concern. “Just go round Mararaba, Nyanyan and Karu from one street to another, refuse litters everywhere and nobody cares. “Karu authorities are no longer doing anything to refuse collection, we are all at the mercy of the scavengers, popularly called “Babanbolas’’ or “Mesharas’’, boys using carts to carry refuse,’’ she said. Bello said that there were only three waste collection vehicles serving the teaming population in whole local government. She said that the dumpsites in the local government were inadequate to accommodate the enormous waste being generated. According to her, in view of this, most residents end up throwing their refuse in the gutter leading to accumulation of refuse in many parts of Maraba, Nyayan and Karu and flooded anytime it rained. “Indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the gutters and open defecation at every streets, parks and markets have become the order of the day.’’ Mallam Bature Bichi, a wheelbarrow trader, called on the authorities to redesign its system of refuse collection because it did not conform to modern methods. “The collection and disposal method of refuse in the area is very crude and inimical to health and hygiene. So, there is urgent need to improve on it. “If you visit the orange market and the abattoir, it is another eyesore and if there is outbreak of any disease, it will be difficult to curtail. “At the abattoir, you will see heap of refuse in the stream that the meat sellers use in washing the cow skin popularly called `ponmo’,’’ he said. According to him, there should be a strict measure to control the activities of the scavengers because in the process of looking for recycled items, they always end up scattering the refuse on the highways. Bichi urged the authority to consider the health implications of the current situation of waste littered in all the satellite towns in the FCT.