Ekiti State government has promised to provide needed support for young entrepreneurs who are willing to expand their scope of business, in line with the government’s vision of igniting entrepreneurship spirit among its citizens. The First Lady of Ekiti State, Erelu Bisi  Fayemi, disclosed this at the closing session of the Ekiti Entrepreneurship Week 2019 in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday.The support according to her, including providing them more opportunities to showcase their talents, assisting them with funds for expansion and linking them with mentors. No fewer than 5,000 participants drawn from the 16 local government areas of the state participated in the three-day programme which was tagged “Enterprise and creativity meet opportunity” . Erelu Fayemi, who presented awards to some participants with very outstanding and innovative business ideas and projects, said she was delighted at the enthusiasm of the participants, adding government’s plan to enhance the capacity of young entrepreneurs and make them providers of employment is being realised. She expressed her satisfaction at the dexterity of many of the designers that showcased their designs made from locally sourced materials during the runway. She noted that the initiative would boost the state’s economic development if well explored strategically and help the fashion artists to develop themselves. Her words: “We are doing this entrepreneurship week to showcase Ekiti locally made fabrics and tailoring”. “We have seen that Ekiti people are amazing, we have all these materials produced here in Ekiti. The Aso-oke was made by the local Association of Aso-Oke Weavers and the adire material was made by students of the Ekiti State University (EKSU). “We want to thank Dr John Kayode Fayemi for investing in Ekiti and supporting the women folk, we are showcasing to the world what we can do. Ekiti people are not lazy, they are hard working and industrious she added”. Erelu Fayemi further disclosed that a number of the participants at the programme would be invited to both Fashion Week in Lagos, Nigeria in December, and the African Fashion Week London in 2020. She expressed her optimism that the programme would be a permanent feature in the State since “Ekiti people cherish hard work, dedication and commitment to excellence”. I am proud of them and give kudos to Dr Kayode Fayemi for believing and showcasing the talented sons and daughters of Ekiti The Secretary of the planning committee, Mr Seyi Aiyeleso, urged the participants to make good use of the opportunity given to them from the programme adding that the programme was designed as a platform for raising and showcasing talemts , which according to him abound in the state. Erelu Fayemi was presented with the Fashion Designers Association of Nigeria (FADAN) lifetime Achievement Award at the event by the National President of FADAN, Mrs Funmi Ajila-Ladipo. Mrs Ajila-Ladipo expressed her gratitude to God and the committee in charge of the program and Dr Kayode Fayemi for impacting Ekiti sons and daughters through fashion entrepreneurship.