MAN’s power generation technology has achieved an important milestone with the first MGT gas turbine heat and power systems to be installed in Africa. According to a statement, three packages with the proven single-shaft MGT6000 gas turbine technology will deliver around 20 MW to a power plant, which supplies heat and power to BPL oil & gas facilities 30 miles southwest of Port Harcourt in Nigeria. The order for MAN was placed by American EPC and equipment exporter Combustion Associates Inc. (CAI). Together with Exterran Corporation, the company is responsible for the engineering, manufacturing and installation of the overall project. “We have seen the exceptional quality and performance of MAN MGT6000 gas turbines and are confident in placing our first order for them. This is the beginning of a long-term partnership between CAI and MAN and we plan to work together on other power projects in Africa, which is CAI’s key market,” said Mukund Kavia, CAI Chairman. “We are honored to collaborate with CAI on this important power generation project in Nigeria. This latest contract award and the recently commissioned MGT gas turbines trains in China prove that the benefits of MAN’s technology solution are being recognized by the market,” says Sebastian Könning, Project Manager Sales for Gas Turbines at MAN Energy Solutions. Dr. Sven-Hendrik Wiers, Vice President Gas Turbines at MAN Energy Solutions, states: “Both low emissions and high efficiency are becoming increasingly important for gas turbines in the market. With the state-of-the-art MGT technology, our company is able to fulfill these demands and provide a gas turbine family optimized for decentral, flexible and at the same time highly-efficient power generation solution with minimum emissions.” The MAN turbine technology will deliver around 20 MW of power, using Dry Low Emission technology and natural gas as a low-emission fuel. The system also features a specifically modified intake air-cooling in order to guarantee a flawless operation despite the high temperatures on site. The set-up comprising three gas turbines trains enables a flexible load profile for the operator. All trains are equipped with an ATU Box (Analytics Telemetrie Unit), which is connected to the new digital platform MAN CEON. The system collects and evaluates operating and sensor data and enables the customer to monitor the machine’s operation around the clock and easily request advice for remote support. MAN Energy Solutions was able to meet the customer need for fast deployment – the delivery of the machines are planned for November 2019. All gas turbines are manufactured in Oberhausen (Germany) and the packaging is done at MAN’s Chinese workshop in Changzhou. CAI’s order continues the successful story of MAN’s gas turbine business beyond the Chinese market, where recently four gas turbine generator packages have been put into operation in cogeneration plants. The Combined Heat and Power processes (CHP) replace the former coal-based plants, resulting in a significant emission reduction.