The Federal Government through the National Directorate of Employment (NDE)  has distributed tools and equipment worth N1.2 million as well as cash to 11 youths trained on landscaping and Plaster Of Paris (POP) in Nasarawa State. Dr Nasiru Ladan-Argungu, the NDE Director General, said the gesture was to enable the youths to be become self reliant and to contribute their quota to the development of the country. Ladan-Argungu, while addressing the beneficiaries on Thursday in Lafia during the disbursement of the tools, equipment and cash, urged them to use the items for the purpose they were meant. The  gesture was under the  Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS) of the NDE. Ladan-Argungu, who was represented by the Nasarawa State Coordinator of the scheme, Alhaji Dauda-Idris Wase, said that the beneficiaries were equipped with skills sought for in the construction industry to enable them become self reliant and to be employers of labour. “Today’s auspicious occasion marks the beginning of the life journey of 416 selected youths across the 36 states and the FCT out of the 1,850 trained under the 2018 Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS) of the Directorate. “This to be able to unlock their potentials as leaders, take the country into the future as well as maximise the qualities of their lives. “The EBTS initiative is to offer youthful school leaver participants, employability skills and learning experiences that transfer hard and soft landscaping skills to them on-the-job, while serving on attachment with experienced landscaping service providers in the informal sector,” he said. Ladan-Argungu commended  the landscaping service providers trainers who assisted to impart knowledge and skills to the beneficiaries. The director general also commended the state government for providing the enabling environment for NDE job creation programmes to thrive. Earlier, Alhaji Dauda-Idris Wase, the State Coordinator of the scheme, said  EBTS was designed to create decent jobs to unemployed school leavers and dropouts through training and development in the landscaping services value chain. Wase, represented by Mr Rotgak Go’ar, the Head of Vocational Skills Development Department, said that the gesture was to empower the beneficiaries with the necessary tools, equipment and money as working capital to immediately start their own landscaping and Plaster of Paris (POP) businesses. “50 youths were recently trained under the scheme in the state, but only 11 of them are now lucky to get further assistance of tools, equipment and cash component all valued at N1.2m,” he said.