WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria LNG Limited, the nation’s leading gas company has recommended its successful model for most companies doing business in Nigeria, saying it was proud to have been able to navigate through all complexities to remain a Nigerian success story. NLNG has been a critical player in Nigeria’s
economy as it’s marking 30 years of incorporation as a business entity and 20
years of safe and reliable operations this year. In the goodwill remarks by the Manager,
Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, NLNG, Sophia Horsfall, at the
Guild of Corporate Online Publishers’ Conference at Sheraton Hotel, Lagos on
October 4, 2019, she acknowledged
that over the last 30 years the company had observed various obstacles to the
economy, security and development of Nigeria, some of which had challenged it
as a company operating within the country. While the LNG exporter was able to navigate
through all the complexities, she said the tough truth was that the same cannot
be said of most other companies doing business in Nigeria. “The challenges of National development are real and detrimental to many businesses, families and individuals in Nigeria,”  Mrs Horsfall said. However, she said the good news was that solutions
can be found to the problems if the nation ponder, rub minds, outline
collective goals and work together. On the theme of GOCOP conference 2019:
“Economy, Security and National Development: The Way Forward,” she said it was
most relevant now considering the prevailing socio-economic issues in Nigeria. Besides appreciating partnership with GOCOP in
communicating its messages to various stakeholders, she said, “I commend you
for bringing various thought leaders together to discuss how to use your
vantage position to address a theme that is very paramount to all of us
irrespective of industries and sectors. “Today, building blocks can be erected to create strong pillars for a safe, strong, innovative, productive and leading country.  “For us, as Nigeria turns 59 and as Nigeria LNG turns 30 this year, there could not have been a better time than now for a conference like this.” She congratulated all the members of GOCOP for putting the conference together and for being an important association working towards ensuring Nigeria realizes her full potential. “I urge you to sustain this conference as an annual event for the benefit of us all. I wish you success,”   Mrs Horsfall.