As BudgIT presents cutting-edge
findings on the fiscal condition of states in Nigeria, Lagos, Rivers and other
states have topped the 2019 Fiscal Sustainability Ranking. This is according to the State of States Report, launched today
in Abuja, where BudgIT draws the curtain to unveil the realities of fiscal
sustainability of the thirty-six Nigerian states plus an anatomy of their human
capital investment, at the 2019 State of States and Investing in People event. According to a statement by its
Communications Associate, Shakir Akorede, BudgIT has issued annual editions of
the State of States Report since
2015, dissecting both financial and economic trends at subnational level in
Nigeria. The 2019 report came with a tweak in methodology by using states’ actual
expenditure as at 2017, reducing the probability of unreliability, as posed by
inflated budgeted figures especially expenditure items. For this year’s report,
BudgIT worked with all thirty-six state governments on accessing their audited
reports. “This was aimed at making our fiscal index more governed by reality
than by budget estimates.” the statement reads. In the last  two editions of the report, we paid attention
to the export potentials of states and also competitiveness of states. However,
in this edition, we have broadened the scope by reviewing the current state of
health in each state, using broad metrics on infant mortality rate, maternal
mortality rate, access to skilled workers and doctor density ratio among
states. In addition, we explored testimonies from citizens on the current state
of health in the respective communities, bringing to the fore challenges
ranging from lack of access to skilled workers, poor quality of personnel and
lack of access to drugs. Our interest is to further dive into the stories of
citizens on the current state of healthcare in the country and how resource
allocations are not enough to meet the heightening challenges. While we would have liked to draw on
2018 audited statements for the report, less than 15 states have published
their audited statement, making it largely unrepresentative for the states.
“However, we note that the issues of weak economies of states persists as they
remain tied to informal trade and skeletal industrial output with exception of
Lagos, Rivers, Delta, Ogun and Akwa Ibom states. Our report reveals that most
Nigerian states have still not figured out how to harness their collective
strengths, establish single focus investment products, thereby becoming fulcrum
of productivity and not just FAAC collection centers,” BudgIT Principal Lead,
Gabriel Okeowo, told journalists. “While Nigerian states are not out of
the woods due to the sub-optimal federalism system that Nigeria practices, the
recent one-off payments such as the Paris Club Exchange Rate Refund, refund for
federal road projects to states, budget support fund and loans by the Central
Bank of Nigeria have helped many states with fiscal challenge to mildly
recover. It is interesting to see states like Cross River, with a bogus budget
of N1.04tn, spend less than N93bn on an annual basis which brings them up the
rank as well as Imo with its recurrent spending of N43bn,” Okeowo added. Lagos State leads the fiscal
sustainability index, followed by Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Kano States. Access to
audited statements brought out some facts on the true state of recurrent
expenditure in focus states. We noticed states such as Delta running huge
recurrent expenditure reaching N200bn while Bayelsa, despite its tiny size and
population, has a towering recurrent bill as high as N137bn, compared with
Ebonyi (N30bn), Sokoto (N38bn), Jigawa (N43bn), Yobe (N35bn), etc. It is a
recurring theme to see states in South-South Nigeria running high recurrent
bills, mainly driven by the high revenues earned due to the 13% derivation.

We
believe that our work in terms of transparency must henceforth explore the
socio-economic dimensions of the Nigerian society. Our belief is that Nigeria
needs to create an incentive for states to expand growth and earning potential,
thereby activating resources needed to improve the state of health, education
and access to opportunity. BudgIT believes that Nigeria possesses the required
resources to change the dynamics of its population, but this will require
strong leadership  in a dynamic and
competitive world.