The leadership of  Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), on Saturday inaugurated a 130-member committee for its 20th anniversary. The ACF was set up in March 2020, following the infusion of the Turaki Committee, Northern Elders Forum and the Unity and Development Foundation, to form the regional bloc. Its was formed after consultations among northern leaders, political elites and traditional leaders. The committee saddled with responsibility of organizing a successful 20th anniversary celebrations is headed by Sen. Aliyu wamakko with Sen.  Geoge Akume and Arch Ibrahim Bunu as deputies. Chairman of the ACF Board of Trustees, Malam Adamu Fiki, who inaugurated the committee in Kaduna, also named Alhaji Abubakar Girei and Engr Umar Santuraki Gassol, as secretaries. Fika noted that the ACF had in its 20 years of existence played significant roles in the country, especially in the areas of peace and conflict resolution, maintaining political stability and entrenchment of democratic norms and cultures. He added that the northern bloc had provided critical intervention during period of serious tensions in the country and offered informed and patrotic advice to government. “We must at all time give tribute to the pioneer leaders of the forum who laid good foundation for its growth and achievements, ” he said. According to him, the founders had played remarkable parts in tranforming the ACF into a formidable organization in the country. “The next 20 years is for you the younger generation of leaders to move the Forum to an enviable position of strength, so that it can withstand the challenges and demand of the 21st century North and Nigeria,” he said. Fika urged the anniversary commitee to also suggest what role the Forum will play in the next 20 years. In his speech, Wamakko assured that the commitee would do a thorough and effective job that will uphold the enviable image and reputation of the ACF as a formidable and pragmatic organization. He said, “we are fully and unequivocally committed to wisdom and vision of the founding fathers of the organization and are determined at all costs to sustain this vision. “I am confident that everything necessary will be done to ensure the success of the anniversary events.”