WorldStage Newsonline– The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Communications commission (NCC), Prof Umar Danbatta, has said effective applications of ICT to governance would help increase Internal Generated Revenue (IGR) and curb corrupt practices in the country. Speaking at the E-Government conference organized by Digiserve Network Service in Lagos, Danbatta said the introduction of e-government applications had been beneficial to governments in several ways. Represented by the Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, the NCC boss emphasized that the deliberate decision to deploy ICT for public service delivery in Nigeria was traceable to the formulation of the Nigeria National Telecommunications Policy in 2000, adding that the policy had make Nigeria an ICT driven Country in Africa and a key player in the information society. He said: “A retrospective look at how we have fared as a nation since 2000, when the Nigeria National Telecommunications Policy established the need for e-government drive, showed that many Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) at Federal and especially State levels have moved a number of their services online. “There has been appreciable increase in the number of MDAs, especially at Federal and State levels with functional websites with information about specific programmes or services benefiting women and children, persons with disabilities, older persons, indigenous people, and people living in poverty, businesses and so on. “At Federal Level, for instance, the Treasury Single Account (TSA), the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) as well as other e-services have been put in place while efforts are being made to substantially reduce paper workplace in government offices.” He further acknowledged that Nigerian e-government drive is still faced with a number of challenges ranging from lack of adequate Information Technology (IT) infrastructure; epileptic power/electricity supply; reduced budgetary allocation for ICT, lack of trained and qualified personnel and the resistance to change attitude by public servants and other related issues. According to him, the centre of e-government adoption is the Internet, which is an important infrastructure that must be available to both the government and the end-user citizens, businesses or other stakeholders to ensure effective interaction with the government. “In this regard, the NCC has continued to push various initiatives to deepen access to the Internet and by extension, broadband services in the country,” he said. Danbatta noted that the commission exceeded its target for Broadband Penetration in 2018 and will continue its drive towards universal access as detailed in the framework of its 8 Point Agenda. As at August 2019, 2G subscriptions stood 122.9 million, corresponding to 64.42 per cent of the population. Also, there were 49.7 million 3G subscriptions equivalent to 26.03 per cent of the population with 17.3 million 4G subscriptions representing 9.07 per cent of the population. Broadband penetration on 3G and 4G, which are categorised as broadband networks, therefore stood at 35.10 per cent in August, 2019. The EVC said in line with the Next Level agenda of the current administration, the Commission hoped to increase the number of fibre deployment in Nigeria to 127,000 kilometre from its current 42,000 kilometer of fibre connectivity in the country. “Through the InfraCo initiatives, therefore, the Commission expects additional 30,000 kilometre of fibre to be added. This is aside the results expected from major Mobile network Operators (MNOs), who also earmark resources, on a yearly basis, to expand their fibre deployment,” he said.