Head, Development Finance Office, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Alhaji Abdullahi Isa  says the Federal Government disbursed over N5 billion to benefiting farmers in Gombe State under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) in 2018. Isa disclosed this in Gombe on Wednesday during the inauguration of a committee to recover CBN loans from benefitting farmers under the North East Commodity Association (NECAS). He said that it was imperative for farmers under the programme to pay back loans to sustain and enhance the scope of the programme in the state. Isa said that the Federal Government was committed to boosting the agricultural sector by assisting farmers across the country with loans and inputs to boost productivity while creating jobs for youths. He said the funds given to farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Programme was not free but was meant to boost farming activities and increase farmers’ income in rural areas. He appealed to beneficiaries pay back the loan on time to enable them and others access more loans. Alhaji Sadiq Daware, the National Chairman of NECAS said two committees had been inaugurated to recover the Anchor Borrowers loans given to beneficiaries at both the state and local government levels. Daware said that the members of the committee would be given the necessary support to recover the loans in line with their mandate. He said that the committee was inaugurated to also tackle the challenge of increase in the prices of food during the festive periods. He said that the committee would also mop up more paddies and maize from benefitting farmers to service the milling companies for processing. The chairman called on beneficiaries to assist government in its efforts in revamping the agricultural sector and diversifying the country’s economy. He commended the border closure by the government, which according to him was good for both the agricultural and manufacturing sectors. “ The closure of the border by President Muhammadu Buhari was done with the best of intension to support local production and NECAS is supporting him in the initiative taken.