WorldStage Newsonline– The Central Bank of Nigeria has confirmed that N19.18 billion has been granted to finance of nine ginneries to retool their processing plants, while providing them with improved access to finance at single digit interest rate. CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele who disclosed this at the signing of an MoU between the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) and Ginning Companies, to guarantee steady off-take and processing of cotton lint and cotton seeds and an MoU between the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association and the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Nigeria Police, Paramilitary Institutions & National Youth Service Corps. The deal is to facilitate long-term contracts (5 years or more) with Textile and Garment companies to manufacture uniforms in Nigeria for  use by various arms of  Nigeria’s uniform services . Emefiele, said CBN will help in sustain their operations and improve their production capacity, adding that same support will also be extended to the textile and garment firms. “We have invested heavily in our local textile and garment factories to retool and produce assorted uniforms for our uniformed services that meet international standards,” he said. “We have also constituted a Textile Revival Implementation Committee (TRIC) which includes the CBN, Federal Ministries of Agriculture and Rural Development; Water Resources; Industry, Trade and Investment; and the Governments of Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Gombe and Zamfara States. “This Committee is driving the initiative to achieve self-sufficiency in cotton production and textile materials within a span of 3 years. In this regard, we have held consultative meetings with State Governments on ways to reduce the operational cost of running textile factories within their respective States. “State Governments have indicated their interest in providing captive power plants in industrial areas where textile manufacturers operate, in order to enhance their productivity and reduce the operational cost of running their factories. We believe that through these initiatives, all the businesses along the cotton- textile value chain can come alive again thereby helping to improve the economy of our states.” In his remark, Nigeria Air force, Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, commended the CBN governor for the initiative, adding that “it will be an added value to economy of Nigeria. “And it has made it easy for to access military uniform rather than importing uniforms outside the country. ” Governor of Gombe State, Inuwa Yahaya, said, sourcing of textile materials from outside the country will continue to drain Nigeria foreign exchange reserves, adding that there was the need for the country to sit up. He added that the genesis of Kaduna crisis was due to the collapse of textile industry, assuring that Gombe State government will support the CBN initiative.