In a major move towards complying with the Executive Order 003,
which directs all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to grant
preference to local content in their procurement of goods and services, the
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Tuesday, October 29, 2019, facilitated the
signing of two memoranda of understanding (MOU) among stakeholders in the
country’s Cotton, Textiles and
Garments (CTG) sector. The first MOU signed was between the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) and Ginning Companies, to guarantee steady off-take and processing of cotton lint and cotton seeds; while the second was between the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association and the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Nigeria Police, Paramilitary Institutions & National Youth Service Corps to facilitate long-term contracts with Textile and Garment companies to manufacture uniforms in Nigeria for  use by various arms of  Nigeria’s uniform services. Speaking at the epoch-making ceremony held at the Bank’s Head
Office in Abuja, the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele expressed gladness that
all stakeholders had keyed into the vision of President Buhari to grow and develop Nigeria’s agricultural sector
and the wider economy. According to him, the ceremony, which also attracted
four State Governors (Kaduna, Cross River, Gombe and Katsina), two ministers
and Service Chiefs as well as Heads of Uniformed Services and labour leaders,
was the result of almost two years of painstaking activities and consultations
with key stakeholders in the CTG value chain. While reeling out efforts made by the CBN, in
collaboration with other agencies, to revamp the sector, Mr. Emefiele urged
participants to collaborate closely in ensuring the patronage of local textile and
garment factories in procurement of uniforms. To
guarantee conformity with quality and security, he assured that the CBN would work
with the security agencies alongside concerned textile and garment factories “to
ensure that the finished products as well as wastes are treated as currency
-with highest level of security until they are delivered to the right clients
or disposed accordingly.” Speaking
further, Mr. Emefiele expressed confidence that the signing of the MOU would resuscitate
the CTG sector as well as support the Bank’s efforts at creating jobs for many
Nigerians. In their various
remarks, the Governors of Cross River State, Prof. Ben Ayade and his Gombe State
counterpart, Alhaji Muhammad InuwaYahaya as well as the Deputy Governor of
Katsina State, Mannir Yakubu, concurred in describing the CBN initiative as a
revolution, which should be supported by all to ensure the country achieved the
objective of completely resuscitating the CTG sector. Also speaking,
the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola stressed the need for all Nigerians
to support every move aimed at conserving foreign exchange for the country, for
the overall good of the economy.

Highpoint of the
ceremony was the signing of the memoranda of understanding between the National
Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) and Ginners and between uniformed
services and textile and garment factories.